---
description: (04/12/2024) Meeting Minutes
---

# üòÅ (04/12/2024) Meeting Minutes

Apr 12, 2024 | [Open Source Committee (Intersect)](https://www.google.com/calendar/event?eid=bGRvYzcwY3M3N2xlcGdyMzIxNzhlcXMwcnZfMjAyMzEwMjVUMTYwMDAwWiBjaHJpc3RpYW4udGF5bG9yQGlvaGsuaW8)

## Attendees:&#x20;

* Christian Taylor (OSO Rep) [christian.taylor@cardanombo.org](mailto:christian.taylor@cardanombo.org)
* Sandip Pandey [sandip@dquadrant.com](mailto:sandip@dquadrant.com)
* Michael Peyton-Jones [michael.peyton-jones@iohk.io](mailto:michael.peyton-jones@iohk.io)
* Marcin Szamotulski [marcin.szamotulski@iohk.io](mailto:marcin.szamotulski@iohk.io)
* Bogdan Coman [Bogdan Coman](mailto:bogdan.coman@moduscreate.com)
* Adam Dean [adam@crypto2099.io](mailto:adam@crypto2099.io)
* Alex Seregin&#x20;
* Nicholas Clarke [nicholas.clarke@tweag.io](mailto:nicholas.clarke@tweag.io)
* Philip DiSarro [philipdisarro@gmail.com](mailto:philipdisarro@gmail.com)
* Daniel Firth [daniel.firth@iohk.io](mailto:daniel.firth@iohk.io)
* Terence McCutcheon [Terence McCutcheon](mailto:terence.mccutcheon@intersectmbo.org)
* Gheorghe-Aurel Pacurar [Gheorghe-Aurel Pacurar](mailto:gheorghe.pacurar@moduscreate.com)

\
\


Recording:  [https://drive.google.com/file/d/1N-gJBq6SstAK\_kIciBZ5sP20jUiEHcMi/view?usp=drive\_web](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1N-gJBq6SstAK\_kIciBZ5sP20jUiEHcMi/view?usp=drive\_web)

\


Transcript: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1r4iS9eN40I5Oo4El\_7tgJed9HQT6c30PS8dRFUddAvs/edit#heading=h.e56k384g8uxb](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1r4iS9eN40I5Oo4El\_7tgJed9HQT6c30PS8dRFUddAvs/edit#heading=h.e56k384g8uxb)

\


## Agenda

### Old Business:

1. Update from Policy TWG
2. Update from Project Inucbation Policy
3. Closure of Strategy TWG
4. Update from OSO Team
   * Progress towards deliverables

### New Business:&#x20;

1. Elections to replace MPJ
2. Strategy for elections in future
3. Open Forum\


| Discussion Point                                                                                   | Notes / Action Items                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Actions: Responsible / Note                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Current state of Open Source Committee amd updates to Task Management                              | Christian Taylor begins by reflecting on the recent break and the upcoming anniversary of their committee. They aim to keep the meeting concise. They discuss progress on security policy and nudging towards using Matrix. They plan to review drafts and gain TSC approval. Taylor then assigns tasks related to project lifecycle framework and open source, with updates on Q1 deliverables and plans for Q2. Silona Bonewald receives compliments for her book on inner source, with discussions about a possible new book. The conversation shifts to tracking deliverables and aligning them with strategic goals. They confirm integration with the open source strategy and discuss management of tasks in ClickUp.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | <ol><li>Review drafts and gain TSC (Technical Steering Committee) approval.</li><li>Assign tasks related to the project lifecycle framework and open source.</li><li>Provide updates on Q1 deliverables and plans for Q2.</li><li>Discuss the possibility of a new book.</li><li>Track deliverables and align them with strategic goals.</li><li>Confirm integration with the open source strategy.</li><li>Manage tasks in ClickUp.</li></ol>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| Align Deliverables with Strategic Goals, continued discussion for ClickUp and an Election process. | Nicholas Clarke follows up, seeking clarification on how the deliverables align with the goals. Christian Taylor confirms the structure in place for tracking progress and invites everyone to the ClickUp space. Silona Bonewald expresses concerns about using ClickUp, but Taylor explains it was chosen due to pricing and functionality. Michael Peyton Jones announces his departure from IG and discusses the need for an election process. Adam Dean elaborates on the election process and proposes solutions for open member elections, including utilizing external tools. Gheorghe Pacurar then redirects the conversation to Nicholas.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | <ol><li>Seek clarification on how the deliverables align with the goals.</li><li>Confirm the structure in place for tracking progress and invite everyone to the ClickUp space.</li><li>Express concerns about using ClickUp.</li><li>Explain the choice of ClickUp due to pricing and functionality.</li><li>Discuss the need for an election process.</li><li>Elaborate on the election process and propose solutions for open member elections, including utilizing external tools.</li></ol><p><br></p>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| <p>Tech tools currently in use.</p><p>Continued discussion to establish an election procedure.</p> | Silona Bonewald expresses interest in understanding the tech tools being considered for election processes and emphasizes the importance of integrating with existing technology across committees. She outlines her role in bridging different groups and standardizing processes, particularly in backlog management. Nicholas Clarke returns to the topic of Michael's replacement, suggesting an interim process until a more formal election procedure is established. Michael Peyton Jones suggests leveraging his remaining time to prompt action on the election process. Adam Dean shares his experience with rapid voting solutions and highlights the need for clearer definitions and procedures for committee membership in Intersect. Christian Taylor acknowledges the need for clarity and proposes short-term solutions if longer-term processes are not in place by the committee's expiration in August. They discuss fallback options such as using Discord for voting and emphasize the importance of transparency in the process.                                                                                                                                      | <ol><li>Explore the tech tools being considered for election processes and ensure integration with existing technology across committees.</li><li>Standardize processes, particularly in backlog management, and bridge different groups.</li><li>Develop an interim process for Michael's replacement until a more formal election procedure is established.</li><li>Leverage remaining time to prompt action on the election process.</li><li>Provide insights into rapid voting solutions and contribute to defining clearer procedures for committee membership in Intersect.</li><li>Propose short-term solutions if longer-term processes for committee membership are not in place by August.</li><li>Consider fallback options such as using Discord for voting and ensure transparency in the process.</li></ol>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| <p>Privacy concerns with Discord.</p><p>Community communication updates.</p>                       | <p>Silona Bonewald raises a question about Discord's identity verification process, which Christian Taylor acknowledges but clarifies that it's not within the committee's remit to solve. Adam Dean mentions the overlap between his roles in different committees and suggests that his work in the community group may contribute to resolving the election process. Nicholas Clarke suggests resurrecting Adam's previous PR as an interim process for elections. Michael Peyton Jones emphasizes the importance of timely communication and marketing to increase participation in committee activities. Silona suggests using specific hashtags to promote committee content on social media platforms. Christian mentions setting up a process for approval instead of ratification to avoid confusion. They also discuss upcoming documentation reviews and audits to ensure compliance with governance policies and standards. Michael highlights the need to prioritize tasks based on current practices and avoid imposing unnecessary requirements on projects. Silona suggests using badges and certification to incentivize adherence to open source standards.</p><p><br></p> | <ol><li>Investigate Discord's identity verification process further and explore potential solutions or recommendations.</li><li>AD to Leverage his role in the community group to contribute to resolving the election process and consider resurrecting his previous PR as an interim solution.</li><li>Work with Adam to resurrect the previous PR and adapt it for interim use in the election process.</li><li>Emphasize timely communication and marketing efforts to increase participation in committee activities.</li><li>Implement the use of specific hashtags to promote committee content on social media platforms effectively.</li><li>Establish a process for approval instead of ratification to streamline decision-making and avoid confusion.</li><li>Coordinate upcoming documentation reviews and audits to ensure compliance with governance policies and standards.</li><li>Prioritize tasks based on current practices and avoid imposing unnecessary requirements on projects.</li><li>Explore the use of badges and certification to incentivize adherence to open-source standards and encourage participation.</li></ol>                                            |
| <p>Incentives/recognition.</p><p>Prototype view of communications in Matrix/Discord</p>            | Christian Taylor expresses interest in incorporating self-incentives, such as badges, into projects, which Silona Bonewald supports. However, Silona shares her experience with a problematic badge system used by the Linux Foundation. Michael Peyton Jones suggests gradually increasing demands on project contributors over time to foster community engagement. Christian emphasizes the importance of project lifecycle frameworks and incubation processes for achieving project maturity. They then move on to discuss sharing documentation and working on data analytics dashboards for community engagement. Bogdan Coman presents a prototype dashboard that clusters discussion topics from various Matrix rooms, emphasizing the need to involve more contributors in discussions. Silona cautions about data autonomy and privacy concerns related to AI tools. Christian updates the committee on technical issues with Detergent and Biturja access. Finally, they conclude the meeting, with Christian offering to assist with repo organization and giving everyone eight minutes back.                                                                                  | <ol><li>Explore the implementation of self-incentives, such as badges, into projects to promote community engagement.</li><li>Provide insights on effective badge systems and potential pitfalls based on past experiences with the Linux Foundation's system.</li><li>Develop a plan for gradually increasing demands on project contributors over time to encourage community engagement.</li><li>Prioritize the establishment and refinement of project lifecycle frameworks and incubation processes to support project maturity.</li><li>Collaborate on sharing documentation and working on data analytics dashboards to enhance community engagement.</li><li>Further develop the prototype dashboard for clustering discussion topics from various Matrix rooms and work on involving more contributors in discussions.</li><li>Address concerns about data autonomy and privacy related to AI tools and ensure proper consideration of privacy measures.</li><li>Follow up on technical issues with Bitergia access and coordinate with relevant parties for resolution.</li><li>Offer assistance with organizing repositories and provide support to streamline the process.</li></ol> |

\
\
