# üòè (05/17/2024) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

* Christian Taylor (OSO Rep) [Christian Taylor](mailto:christian.taylor@intersectmbo.org)
* Sandip Pandey [sandip@dquadrant.com](mailto:sandip@dquadrant.com)
* Ronald Span [ronald@dquadrant.com](mailto:ronald@dquadrant.com)
* Terence McCutcheon [Terence McCutcheon](mailto:terence.mccutcheon@intersectmbo.org)
* Nicholas Clarke [nicholas.clarke@tweag.io](mailto:nicholas.clarke@tweag.io)
* Silona Bonewald [silona@leadingbit.com](mailto:silona@leadingbit.com)
* Adam Dean [adam@crypto2099.io](mailto:adam@crypto2099.io)
* Bogdan Coman [Bogdan Coman](mailto:bogdan.coman@intersectmbo.org)
* Duncan Soutar [Duncan Soutar](mailto:duncan.soutar@intersectmbo.org)
* Lara Bonasorte [Lara Bonasorte](mailto:lara.bonasorte@intersectmbo.org)
* Marcin Szamotulski [marcin.szamotulski@iohk.io](mailto:marcin.szamotulski@iohk.io)
* Pedro Lucas&#x20;
* Ryan Williams [Ryan Williams](mailto:ryan.williams@intersectmbo.org)
* Samuel Leathers [samuel.leathers@iohk.io](mailto:samuel.leathers@iohk.io)
* Sean Gillespie&#x20;
* Seomon Register&#x20;
* Tom Gallarini&#x20;

Recording: [https://drive.google.com/file/d/1joKgHIxsokFGxJ9bhI8m-cmkvn9BUKC-/view](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1joKgHIxsokFGxJ9bhI8m-cmkvn9BUKC-/view)

Transcript: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pwc7pg2t-AFtayk2CxsZYDlIJt7UaoNfKTgvk-h5S58/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pwc7pg2t-AFtayk2CxsZYDlIJt7UaoNfKTgvk-h5S58/edit?usp=sharing)

## Agenda

### Old Business:

* Policy WG (Adam D.)
* Security WG (N. Clarke)
* Project Framework WG:
* Project Incubation WG
* Update from OSO Team
  * Progress towards deliverables
  * Short-term goals for contributions to core projects

### New Business:&#x20;

* Matterbridge
  * Sam Leathers
* Archiving communications
* Intersect Member‚Äôs Area Testing
* OSC Meeting during Consensus
* Open Forum

| Discussion Point                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Notes / Action Items                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Actions: Responsible / Note                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <p>Updates/Agenda:</p><p><br><br><br><br><br></p><p>Introductions:</p><p><br><br></p><p>Security Working Group Update (Nicholas Clarke):</p><p><br><br><br><br><br></p><p>Policy Working Group Update (Adam Dean):</p>                                                                                               | <p>Security Working Group</p><p>Project Framework and Incubation</p><p>Archiving Communications</p><p>Member Area Testing for Intersect</p><p>Upcoming Meeting Discussion</p><p><br></p><p>Each committee member introduced themselves and their affiliations.</p><p><br></p><p>Focused on defining initial security policies.</p><p>Proposed a document for endorsement by the full committee.</p><p>Suggested a two-week review period before voting.</p><p>Shared the document link for further comments and review.</p><p><br></p><p>Establishing clear definitions and policies for committees, working groups, and task forces.</p><p>Most recent meeting included members from MCC, Civics, and other committees.</p><p>Goal: Common vocabulary and policy framework.</p><p>Plan to set regular meetings for the policy subcommittee.</p><p><br></p>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | <p>Review and provide feedback on the security policy document within two weeks.</p><p><br></p><p>Continue refining the project lifecycle framework.</p><p><br></p><p>Set up regular meetings for the policy subcommittee.</p><p><br></p><p>Align incubation processes with the overall framework.</p>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| <p>Framework Working Group Update (Bogdan Coman):</p><p><br><br><br><br><br><br></p><p>Incubation Working Group Update (Christian Taylor):</p>                                                                                                                                                                       | <p>Discussed the project lifecycle framework with stages: Incubation, Growth, Maturity, Decline, and Sunset.</p><p>Proposed splitting the final stage into 'Archived' and 'Abandoned'.</p><p>Shared the draft document and a diagram summarizing the framework.</p><p>Emphasized the framework‚Äôs non-linear nature.</p><p><br></p><p>Tailoring the incubation process to align with the new project lifecycle framework.</p><p>Addressing the transition criteria between stages.</p><p>Ensuring coordination with other committees to cover all necessary aspects.</p>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | <p><br></p>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| <p>Commercialization and Utility Working Group:</p><p><br><br><br><br><br><br></p><p>Open Source Committee Updates:</p>                                                                                                                                                                                              | <p>Status: In incubation stages.</p><p>Objective: Building utility for Cardano by identifying general use cases and proposing projects.</p><p>Action Item: Christian Taylor to facilitate the ideation phase and propose intersect as a broker for these connections.</p><p><br><br></p><p>Strategy Amendment: Aim to increase community collaboration by enabling a community member to make changes directly into mainnet.</p><p><br><br></p><p>Pilot Project: Adam Dean to lead a 30-day trial for maintainer role involving cardano addresses. Testing criteria include CIP-95 integrations and back 32 pieces.</p><p><br></p>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | <p>Terence McCutcheon and Christian Taylor to provide updates on the commercialization and open source initiatives.</p><p><br></p><p>Follow-up meeting in 2-4 weeks to review progress and finalize decisions.</p><p><br></p><p>General consensus to move forward with proposed amendments and initiatives. Further formalization and implementation details to be discussed in upcoming meetings.</p><p><br></p><p>Adam to merge and review the code.</p><p>Christian Taylor to map current maintainers and ensure transparency.</p><p>Formalize contracts and governance policies for maintainers.</p> |
| Security and Communication Platforms:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | <p>Use of MatterBridge to connect Telegram and Discord channels; consideration of </p><p><br><br></p><p>Mattermost for improved control and security.</p><p><br><br><br></p><p>Security Concerns: Emphasis on strict permissions for sensitive communications, especially for the Security Council.</p><p>Action Items:</p><p><br><br></p><p>Matrix Channels: Potential expansion of the pilot to include slack integration with intersect's slack instance.</p>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | <p>Further discussions to finalize the best platform for secure communications.</p><p><br></p><p>Coordinate with Nick and Matt to determine guidelines for security channels.</p><p><br></p><p>Coordinate a separate meeting with Adam Dean, Nick Clarke, and the policy working group to finalize communication and security platform decisions.</p><p><br></p><p>Research and gather thoughts over the next 2-4 weeks, then escalate for implementation.</p>                                                                                                                                           |
| <p>Archiving Communications</p><p><br><br><br><br><br></p><p>Intersect Members Area Testing</p><p>Update:</p><p><br><br><br></p><p>Upcoming Meetings and Attendance</p><p>Discussion:</p><p><br><br><br></p><p>Open Discussion</p><p>Consensus Event:</p><p><br><br><br><br><br></p><p>Migration to Open Source:</p> | <p>Nicholas Clarke proposed the need for a policy on community communications archiving and record-keeping.</p><p>Action Item: Deferred for discussion in the next meeting or the policy technical working group.</p><p><br></p><p>Next phase of beta testing for the members area is starting next week.</p><p>Open Source Committee members will be contacted separately with test information.</p><p>Action Item: Members to provide feedback on bugs and issues during testing.</p><p><br></p><p>Consensus event attendance may affect the next scheduled meeting.</p><p>Suggestion to move the meeting to the 7th instead of canceling.</p><p>Decision: The meeting will be rescheduled to the 7th.</p><p><br></p><p>Attendees at the consensus event are encouraged to meet up.</p><p>Informal gatherings and discussions at the event are planned.</p><p><br></p><p>Silona:Shared a light moment with a joke about medical students and doctors.</p><p><br></p><p>Update by Christian Taylor on the status of the migration and open-source reports.</p><p>All instances have been migrated, and the space now reflects the new structure.</p> | <p><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br></p><p>Next meeting is set for the 7th.</p><p>For any immediate needs, contact oso@intersectmbo.org.</p>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |

<br>
