# ðŸ˜Œ (07/12/2024) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

* Christian Taylor (OSO Rep) [Christian Taylor](mailto:christian.taylor@intersectmbo.org)
* Sandip Pandey [sandip@dquadrant.com](mailto:sandip@dquadrant.com)
* Ronald Span [ronald@dquadrant.com](mailto:ronald@dquadrant.com)
* Terence McCutcheon [Terence McCutcheon](mailto:terence.mccutcheon@intersectmbo.org)
* Alex Seregin [alexeusgr@gmail.com](mailto:alexeusgr@gmail.com)
* Silona Bonewald [silona@leadingbit.com](mailto:silona@leadingbit.com)
* Adam Dean [adam@crypto2099.io](mailto:adam@crypto2099.io)
* Marcin Szamotulski [marcin.szamotulski@iohk.io](mailto:marcin.szamotulski@iohk.io)
* John Santi&#x20;

&#x20;

Recording: [https://drive.google.com/file/d/1kzd\_DHsyWJTdF4I9Pe1gkdADU7vBhuA1/view?usp=sharing](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1kzd_DHsyWJTdF4I9Pe1gkdADU7vBhuA1/view?usp=sharing)

Transcript: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uXR-twy9oEx1rZ-ghdDVRGpjqoqkKvTD\_NuYOvldIvQ/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uXR-twy9oEx1rZ-ghdDVRGpjqoqkKvTD_NuYOvldIvQ/edit?usp=sharing)

Chat Transcript: [https://drive.google.com/file/d/1bh6-pIjCOXV9bI2m\_mnGO9MSsg6C\_X-Q/view?usp=sharing](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1bh6-pIjCOXV9bI2m_mnGO9MSsg6C_X-Q/view?usp=sharing)

\
<br>

Intros

Christian: Head of Open Source Office, Intersect Staff

Tex: Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary

Nick: Director of Engineering at Tweag/Modus Create

Sandip: Dquadrant

Adam: Adam Dean LLC, CIP Editor, ICC Member, OS Maintainer Pilot, DripDropz

Ronald: CEO Dquadrant, Intersect Member

Daniel: Not Present

Phillip: No Intro Provided

## Agenda

* Policy WG
* Project Incubation WG
* Oracles WG
* Dev Ex WG
* Maintainer Pilot Analysis
* OS Pilot Analysis
* Open Source Office
* OSC Seat Candidate Parameters
* Open Forum

<br>

| Discussion Point            | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Actions: Responsible / Note                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| --------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Policy Working Group        | <p>- **Voting and PR Design:** Voting needs to start soon. Karen likes the PR design; a staggered format will be used.<br>- **Elections Timing:** Elections for other committees will occur at the AMM in three months.<br>- **Coordination Issues:** Difficulty in coordinating on Discord due to random usernames and lack of notifications.<br>- **Vendor for Voting:** Uncertainty about the vendor for hosting and organizing the voting.</p> | <p>- **Align Process:** Align the process for voting based on Karen's feedback.<br>- **Improve Coordination:** Find a better way to organize and coordinate working group members on Discord.<br>- **Confirm Vendor:** Ensure the vendor for voting is confirmed and communicated.</p>                                                          |
| Membership Updates          | <p>- **Membership Renewal:** There is a push for everyone to renew their membership by the end of August.<br>- **Enterprise Level Memberships:** Work is ongoing to sort out Enterprise level memberships.</p>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | <p>- **Ensure Registration:** Ensure everyone is registered by the end of August.<br>- **Clarify Enterprise Memberships:** Figure out where Enterprise memberships fit in and communicate this to the team.</p>                                                                                                                                 |
| Project Incubation          | <p>- **Metrics and Deliverables:** Discussion on metrics portion and deliverables for project incubation.<br>- **Qualification Suggestions:** Suggestions on qualifications at each step are needed.<br>- **Community Involvement:** Community involvement is essential to finalize metrics and qualifications.</p>                                                                                                                                | <p>- **Add Suggestions:** Silona to insert comments and suggestions on metrics and deliverables.<br>- **Organize Meeting:** Organize a Discord meeting to involve the community in the discussion and finalize the metrics.</p>                                                                                                                 |
| Security Policy             | <p>- **Internal Server:** Setting up an internal server with the Security Council.<br>- **Governing Board Meeting:** Governing board meeting with Intersect.<br>- **Policy Replication:** Replicating the DDOS handling approach from IOG side.<br>- **Security MD Templates:** Providing Security MD templates for all projects to follow.</p>                                                                                                    | <p>- **Inform Core Team:** Ensure the core team knows about the security work being done.<br>- **Align Processes:** Set up an appointment with Jer to align the current processes and ensure nothing is missed.</p>                                                                                                                             |
| Oracle Working Group        | <p>- **Meeting Frequency:** Oracle working group has moved to bi-weekly meetings.<br>- **Standards Process:** Discussions on adopting a more formal process similar to standards committees.<br>- **Communication Methods:** Emphasis on effective communication methods to avoid contentiousness.</p>                                                                                                                                             | <p>- **Continue Idea Sessions:** Continue idea sessions and gather feedback from members.<br>- **Align Members:** Ensure all members are in alignment and agree on the processes and communication methods.</p>                                                                                                                                 |
| Dev X Working Group         | <p>- **Developer Advocate Program:** The program is set to start next week.<br>- **Ecosystem Issues:** Addressing issues like scattered documentation and tooling.<br>- **Defining Developer Roles:** Importance of defining developer roles and support mechanisms, especially for new developers and entrepreneurs.</p>                                                                                                                          | <p>- **Launch Program:** Launch the Developer Advocate Program.<br>- **Leverage Catalyst:** Use Catalyst for additional support for developers.<br>- **Define Criteria:** Work on defining criteria for developer productivity and success, including time to being productive and support mechanisms.</p>                                      |
| Open Source Library         | <p>- **Reducing Redundancy:** Importance of reducing redundancy in tooling and proposals within the Cardano ecosystem.<br>- **Centralized Library:** Need for a centralized open source library and ecosystem mapping tool to track existing tools and avoid duplication.</p>                                                                                                                                                                      | <p>- **Form Working Group:** Form a working group for the open source library.<br>- **Gather Participation:** Gather community participation and feedback to ensure the library is comprehensive and useful.</p>                                                                                                                                |
| Open Source Office Updates  | <p>- **Project Support Services:** Services are going live with tiered offerings, including Marketing, Community Building, Governance, Strategy, Sustainability, Training, Project Management, and Legal.<br>- **Service Levels:** Different service levels will be offered: community services (free), member services (free with membership), and direct paid services.</p>                                                                      | <p>- **Launch Services:** Launch the support services and build a supplier list.<br>- **Scope Teams:** Scope out the legal and project management teams to support these services.</p>                                                                                                                                                          |
| Open Source Pilot Results   | <p>- **Maintainer Process:** Experience with the maintainer process, highlighting the need for diversified maintainers and a paid model to increase code review efficiency.<br>- **Engagement and Contribution:** Results showed good engagement but room for improvement in code contribution and decision-making processes.<br>- **Communication Channels:** Need for more effective communication channels and a bug bounty program.</p>        | <p>- **Expand Maintainer Contracts:** Expand maintainer context and contracts based on pilot insights.<br>- **Roll Out Policies:** Roll out the governance and security policies to other repositories.<br>- **Evaluate Bug Bounty:** Evaluate alternative approaches to a bug bounty program, possibly focusing on contribution use cases.</p> |
| Roadmap for Q3              | <p>- **Strategic Collaborations:** Identifying strategic collaboration opportunities within and outside the Cardano community.<br>- **Onboarding External Projects:** Onboarding external projects to Intersect.<br>- **Building Supplier List:** Building a supplier list for the service catalog.<br>- **Policy Adoption:** Legal compliance policy adoption and updating documentation.</p>                                                     | <p>- **Identify Opportunities:** Identify and onboard strategic collaboration opportunities.<br>- **Quantify Goals:** Set quantifiable goals for onboarding external projects.<br>- **Update Roadmap:** Update the roadmap and track membership transparency.</p>                                                                               |
| Transparency and Membership | <p>- **Transparency on Memberships:** Need for transparency related to private and Enterprise memberships on the website.<br>- **Current Tracking:** Current tracking via Discord is inefficient; HubSpot integration for tracking memberships is needed.</p>                                                                                                                                                                                      | <p>- **Website Update:** Ensure transparency on the website regarding membership numbers and types.<br>- **Raise Issue:** Raise the issue of tracking memberships as an OSC request to ensure it is addressed promptly.</p>                                                                                                                     |

<br>
