# ü§ê (08/02/2024) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

* Christian Taylor (OSO Rep) [Christian Taylor](mailto:christian.taylor@intersectmbo.org)
* Sandip Pandey [sandip@dquadrant.com](mailto:sandip@dquadrant.com)
* Ronald Span [ronald@dquadrant.com](mailto:ronald@dquadrant.com)
* Nicholas Clarke [nicholas.clarke@tweag.io](mailto:nicholas.clarke@tweag.io)
* Terence McCutcheon [Terence McCutcheon](mailto:terence.mccutcheon@intersectmbo.org)
* Abhik Nag [Abhik Nag](mailto:abhik.nag@intersectmbo.org)
* Silona Bonewald [silona@leadingbit.com](mailto:silona@leadingbit.com)
* Samuel Leathers [samuel.leathers@iohk.io](mailto:samuel.leathers@iohk.io)
* Seomon Register
* Jaiyeola Demilade
* MIxAxIM

Recording: [https://drive.google.com/file/d/1XTw7XrWbHH1ZAkneZe4VGxOVe22-QDxP/view?usp=sharing](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1XTw7XrWbHH1ZAkneZe4VGxOVe22-QDxP/view?usp=sharing)

Transcript: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lZVmJOjt6aKGuR6bDRDEa01gF8qbguheUg5nWfI6Xb8/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lZVmJOjt6aKGuR6bDRDEa01gF8qbguheUg5nWfI6Xb8/edit?usp=sharing)

## Intros

Christian: Head of Open Source Office, Intersect Staff

Tex: Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary

Nick: Director of Engineering at Tweag/Modus Create

Sandip: Dquadrant

Adam: Not Present

Ronald: CEO Dquadrant, Intersect Member

Daniel: Not Present

Phillip: Not Present

## Agenda

* Policy WG
* Oracles WG
* Developer Advocates
* Update from OSO Team
* Open Forum
* Reminder of New Meeting Cadence

\
\


| Discussion Point                  | Notes                                                                                                                                                   | Actions: Responsible / Note                                                                  |
| --------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Introduction                      | Terence McCutcheon welcomed everyone and handed over to Christian Taylor. Christian requested members to state their affiliations in the Slack channel. | Members to state their affiliations in the Slack channel.                                    |
| Policy Piece                      | Christian discussed the policy draft aligning with Intersect, filling the committee seats, and the interim status duration.                             | Members to review the draft and discuss. Christian to share the document link for review.    |
| GitHub Repos and Project Roadmaps | Silona Bonewald mentioned interest from various groups in GitHub repos and kanbans. Christian supported the idea of project roadmaps on GitHub.         | None specified.                                                                              |
| Changes in Document               | Christian outlined major changes in terms, implementation method, election cycle, and candidate criteria.                                               | Members to review the changes and provide feedback.                                          |
| Voting Mechanism                  | Discussion on the interim voting mechanism and possible use of a Google survey.                                                                         | Develop and finalize the voting mechanism. Christian to gather and implement feedback.       |
| Oracles Working Group             | Silona provided an update on the Oracles working group, emphasizing attendance and standardization practices.                                           | Drive attendance and participation in the working group.                                     |
| Developer Advocate Program        | Christian introduced new Developer Advocates and their roles in building a contribution ladder.                                                         | Plan a meet and greet with Developer Advocates in the next meeting.                          |
| Project Framework and Support     | Christian discussed the Project Framework, criteria for project assessment, and Project Support Services.                                               | Draft acceptance criteria and gather feedback. Continue working on Project Support Services. |
| Community Management              | Christian introduced Abz as the new community manager.                                                                                                  | None specified.                                                                              |
| Security Working Group            | Update on the Security working group‚Äôs first meeting and their Charter.                                                                                 | Publish the Charter and framework on the knowledge base.                                     |
| Open Source Summit                | Announcement of participation in the Open Source Summit in Vienna.                                                                                      | Coordinate a meetup in Vienna. Christian to follow up with interested members.               |

\
