# ðŸ™ƒ (08/08/2024) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

* Christian Taylor (OSO Rep) [Christian Taylor](mailto:christian.taylor@intersectmbo.org)
* Ronald Span [ronald@dquadrant.com](mailto:ronald@dquadrant.com)
* Nicholas Clarke [nicholas.clarke@tweag.io](mailto:nicholas.clarke@tweag.io)
* Terence McCutcheon [Terence McCutcheon](mailto:terence.mccutcheon@intersectmbo.org)
* Karen Wickham [Karen Wickham](mailto:karen.wickham@intersectmbo.org)
* Adam Dean [adam@crypto2099.io](mailto:adam@crypto2099.io)
* Alex Seregin [alexeusgr@gmail.com](mailto:alexeusgr@gmail.com)
* MIxAxIM
* Suganya Raju [realsuganya01@gmail.com](mailto:realsuganya01@gmail.com)
* Daniel Eduardo Mosquera Pava
* Fayyaadh Adams [fayyaadh.adams@iohk.io](mailto:fayyaadh.adams@iohk.io)
* Esteban Garcia&#x20;

&#x20;

Recording: [Open Source Committee (Intersect) (2024-08-08 08:05 GMT-5)](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Uwcg8Y4TdGiAzHKX4cigXf1ipqnzu3QY/view?usp=sharing)

<br>

Transcript: [Open Source Committee (Intersect) (2024-08-08 08:05 GMT-5) â€“ Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12Iu-afbJCrFtdwNXwhghz7aEFa6W5VPVHemW4E-r9Fs/edit?usp=sharing)&#x20;

## Intros

Christian: Head of Open Source Office, Intersect Staff

Tex: Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary

Nick: Director of Engineering at Tweag/Modus Create

Sandip: Not Present

Adam: Adam Dean LLC, CIP Editor, ICC Member, OS Maintainer Pilot, DripDropz

Ronald: CEO Dquadrant, Intersect Member

Daniel: Not Present

Phillip: Not Present

## Agenda

* Developer Advocate Introductions
* Security TWG Update
* Dev Ex WG
* OSC Seats Voting Overview - OSC approved to fill seats prior to Cardano Summit
* Open Forum
* Nomination Discussion continued

\
<br>

| Discussion Point                 | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Actions: Responsible / Note                                                                                                                                                                                |
| -------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Introduction                     | Terence McCutcheon welcomed attendees, including new and returning members, and introduced the agenda. The focus would start with Developer Advocates, followed by voting and nominations later in the call.                                                                        | Members to share their affiliation in the chat.                                                                                                                                                            |
| Developer Advocates Introduction | Terence introduced the Developer Advocates, allowing them to introduce themselves. Alex Seregin discussed his experience with Gimba Labs, Helios project, and his role as Chair of the Developer Experience working group. Suganya shared her background in blockchain and Cardano. | N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Security Working Group Update    | Nicholas Clarke provided a brief update on the Security working group. The group is now answering to the TSC, with ongoing work on the incident response procedure and disaster recovery procedure.                                                                                 | Christian Taylor to update the charter. Nicholas Clarke to continue work on Security procedures.                                                                                                           |
| Developer Experience             | Alex Seregin discussed the need for continuous focus on Developer Experience. The group has been advocating for tools like Helios and discussed the importance of publicizing these efforts.                                                                                        | OSC members (Christian, Adam, Nick, and Ronald) to discuss and decide on maintaining community involvement and Developer Advocates' role in the working group.                                             |
| Voting and Nominations           | Karen Wickham explained the election process for Committee members, which will take place in September and October. Current members can re-apply. Adam Dean raised concerns about the need to fill vacancies before October.                                                        | OSC to start the nomination period on August 12th and use either the Summon tool or a manual process if the tool is not ready. Karen to ensure the process aligns with Intersect's communication strategy. |
| Open Forum and Final Discussions | Discussion on the eligibility of Committee members and whether companies can have more than one seat or swap representatives. Terence McCutcheon suggested revisiting the nomination process if there is low participation.                                                         | OSC to monitor nomination participation and revisit the strategy if needed.                                                                                                                                |

<br>
