# ðŸ˜µ (09/05/2024) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

* Sandip Pandey [sandip@dquadrant.com](mailto:sandip@dquadrant.com)
* Ronald Span [ronald@dquadrant.com](mailto:ronald@dquadrant.com)
* Terence McCutcheon [Terence McCutcheon](mailto:terence.mccutcheon@intersectmbo.org)
* Adam Dean [adam@crypto2099.io](mailto:adam@crypto2099.io)
* Samuel Leathers [samuel.leathers@iohk.io](mailto:samuel.leathers@iohk.io)
* Simon Fleck [seomon.register@gmail.com](mailto:seomon.register@gmail.com)
* Robin BÃ¶ning&#x20;

Recording: [Open Source Committee (Intersect) â€“ 2024/09/05 07:56 CDT â€“ Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1\_3gINT-Hjnga2E2bcSlA91M5B1wxD\_ro/view?usp=sharing)\


Transcript: [Open Source Committee (Intersect) â€“ 2024/09/05 07:56 CDT â€“ Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jc7fuW9mAcz4MRfU9p2S0r\_90x-vDmK4mtgTxzJ2Dys/edit?usp=sharing)

## Intros

Christian: Head of Open Source Office, Intersect Staff

Tex: Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary

Nick: Director of Engineering at Tweag/Modus Create

Sandip: Dquadrant

Adam: Adam Dean LLC, CIP Editor, ICC Member, OS Maintainer Pilot, DripDropz

Ronald: CEO Dquadrant, Intersect Member

Daniel: Not Present

Phillip: No Intro Provided

## Agenda 9.5.24

* Review Current Priorities/Tasking of OSC
* Intro/Interview Session for OSC Candidates
* Oracles WG
* Open Forum

| Discussion Point                   | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Actions: Responsible / Note                                                                                                                 |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Voting Update                      | Sandip Pandey asked for an update on the voting. Adam Dean shared that 45 people have registered to vote, with 11 new registrations since the previous day. There are 800 paid members, and participation is low, but it's expected as this is a test vote. The goal is to reach at least 100 registered voters. Adam mentioned removing candidates who were unresponsive and ensuring transparency by documenting communication attempts. | Push for more registrations by the end of the voting period. Continue beating the drum for registrations.                                   |
| Candidates' Introduction           | Terence McCutcheon updated that a video introduction of the candidates was posted on YouTube. Some feedback indicated the video was rough, but Terence explained that no specific format was provided. More sessions are planned to engage with the community and allow candidates to introduce themselves. One session was scheduled later in the day to accommodate more community members.                                              | Remind the community to watch the candidate introduction video. Promote future candidate intro sessions.                                    |
| Social Media Posts                 | Adam Dean emphasized the importance of including graphics in social media posts to increase engagement. Terence is working on getting a graphic approved and will ensure posts go out on Discord, LinkedIn, and Twitter. Registration will run until midnight UTC, and voting will close the following Friday.                                                                                                                             | Ensure posts include graphics or other media. Post reminders on Discord, LinkedIn, and Twitter about voter registration and the final call. |
| Commercialization Working Group    | Sandip Pandey asked for an update from the commercialization working group. Terence shared that this will be discussed after onboarding new members, with a decision expected by October.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Follow up with the commercialization working group after onboarding new members.                                                            |
| Oracles Working Group              | Terence updated that the Oracles Working Group met, though they didn't achieve a quorum. They started action on listing decentralized exchanges (DEXs) in the ecosystem. More participation is needed, and if participation drops again, it may require further discussion.                                                                                                                                                                | Monitor participation in the Oracles Working Group and discuss it in the next agenda-setting meeting.                                       |
| Participation in Working Groups    | Sandip Pandey suggested that the group adopt a participation rule similar to Hydra's, where members who miss three meetings can no longer participate. Terence recommended sending this suggestion to the MCC and Group Design Working Group for consideration, as the current rules don't enforce participation levels.                                                                                                                   | Consider implementing participation rules for working groups and send feedback to the Group Design Working Group.                           |
| Candidates' Profile                | Ronald Span inquired about the profiles of the candidates. Terence explained that candidate information was collected via a nomination form and LinkedIn profiles were added later.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Provide additional clarity on future nomination forms. Continue to include LinkedIn profiles in candidate introductions.                    |
| Election Process Update            | Terence will work with internal teams to clarify the election process for the general election, which begins Monday.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Provide an update on the general election process before the next meeting.                                                                  |
| Vienna Open Source Committee Event | Seomon Register asked Adam Dean if he'd be willing to sit on a panel with Nicholas and Terence at the Open Source Committee event in Vienna. Adam agreed.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Seomon will send out a tweet and discord post about the event. Adam to participate in the panel.                                            |
| Wrapping Up                        | Since there was no quorum for decision-making, the meeting was wrapped up early.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Next meeting to include new members for more active participation.                                                                          |
