# ðŸ‘‹ (10/03/2024) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

* Christian Taylor (OSO Rep) [Christian Taylor](mailto:christian.taylor@intersectmbo.org)
* Sandip Pandey [sandip@dquadrant.com](mailto:sandip@dquadrant.com)
* Terence McCutcheon [Terence McCutcheon](mailto:terence.mccutcheon@intersectmbo.org)
* Alex Seregin [alexeusgr@gmail.com](mailto:alexeusgr@gmail.com)
* Udai Solanki [Udai Solanki](mailto:udai.solanki@gmail.com)
* Moritz Angermann [moritz.angermann@iohk.io](mailto:moritz.angermann@iohk.io)
* Matthias Benkort
* Matthieu Pizenberg
* Slugwax

Recording: [Open Source Committee (Intersect) â€“ 2024/10/03 07:58 CDT â€“ Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1TKahIW6WXOFM52nuKATjG5PLftpgVPQE/view?usp=sharing)

Transcript:  [Open Source Committee (Intersect) â€“ 2024/10/03 07:58 CDT â€“ Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hY4JkbwHQttBbeHYHQxI-9HwpkGp5DrEefW0X9mskeg/edit?usp=sharing)

Chat Transcript: [https://drive.google.com/file/d/1XNEzdYXMqp7EB4tyTkSvC5IdDFrp4i5i/view?usp=sharing](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1XNEzdYXMqp7EB4tyTkSvC5IdDFrp4i5i/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

Christian: Head of Open Source Office, Intersect Staff

Tex: Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary

Nick: Director of Engineering at Tweag/Modus Create

Sandip: Dquadrant

Adam: Adam Dean LLC, CIP Editor, ICC Member, OS Maintainer Pilot, DripDropz

Ronald: CEO Dquadrant, Intersect Member

Phillip: Not Present

## Agenda 10.3.24

* Open Forum<br>

| Discussion Point                  | Notes                                                                                                                                                                 | Actions: Responsible / Note                                                                                                                                              |
| --------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Meeting Introduction              | Christian announced that some key members, including Diane, Adam, and Robin, could not attend. Udai and Moritz are present.                                           | None                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Introductions                     | New attendees Matthieu Pizenberg, Moritz Angermann, and Alex Seregin introduced themselves.                                                                           | None                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Lack of Formal Agenda             | The meeting is an open forum due to missing members and no set agenda.                                                                                                | None                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Contribution Ladder Overview      | Christian explained the concept of a contribution ladder for assessing project health and contributor roles in open source projects.                                  | Christian and Alex to collaborate on finalizing the contribution ladder, gathering inputs, and ratifying it with the full committee by the end of October.               |
| Contribution Ladder Issues        | Alex expressed confusion about defining merit and contributor agreements.                                                                                             | Christian and Alex to address the issue of defining merit and develop a clear problem statement for the contribution ladder.                                             |
| Open Source Project Framework     | Discussion on categorizing open source projects by their maturity level (incubation, graduated, abandoned, etc.).                                                     | Christian to finalize the open source project framework and present it to the committee for approval.                                                                    |
| Role of the Open Source Committee | Christian emphasized that the committeeâ€™s role is to define best practices for development and project integration in the ecosystem.                                  | Continue to develop guidelines and best practices for the open source projects and contribute to the larger governance model of Intersect.                               |
| Funding and Governance            | Christian outlined how the funding model, certification, and contribution ladder tie into the broader governance and revenue model for Intersect.                     | Prepare documentation for review and ratification after elections, focusing on certification processes, maintainer programs, and governance models.                      |
| Next Steps                        | Christian suggested finalizing documents, including the contribution ladder and project maturity framework, and discussing them after the full committee is in place. | Prepare a formal agenda for the next meeting, finalize contribution ladder documents, and review with the full committee in two weeks. Update documentation accordingly. |
| Meeting Cadence                   | The current meeting schedule is every two weeks on Thursdays, subject to change based on new committee membersâ€™ availability.                                         | Terence to update and share the Intersect Events Calendar for easier tracking of recurring meetings and events.                                                          |

<br>
