# ü§§ (11/07/2024) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name                     | Role        | Voting Seat (Y/N) |
| ------------------------ | ----------- | ----------------- |
| P. Lucas                 | Chair       | Y                 |
| Adam Dean                | Vice Chair  | Y                 |
| Terence ‚ÄòTex‚Äô McCutcheon | Secretary   | N                 |
| Christian Taylor         | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Sandip Pandey            | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Diane Mueller            | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Jonathan Kelly           | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Sebastian Pabon          | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Moritz Angermann         | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Robin B√∂ning             | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Nicolas Henin            | Member/Seat | Y                 |

Community/Other Attendees

* Alex Seregin
* Marcel Baumberg
* Sem

\


**Recording:** [Open Source Committee Meeting ‚Äì 2024/11/07 07:56 CST ‚Äì Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1yiV9mQ1JX2PztY7HIr\_nLdYqS5ckxt4P/view?usp=sharing)

**Transcript:** [Open Source Committee Meeting ‚Äì 2024/11/07 07:56 CST ‚Äì Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wXDyGK6fu3p-Z8CwEW2lkqPTrWF4FC3gSm0XlOliq2c/edit?usp=sharing)

**Chat Transcript:** [Open Source Committee Meeting ‚Äì 2024/11/07 07:56 CST ‚Äì Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1HJ-IcAThsp-YBaxGdSw65Q8BPyHxaPk8/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

**Christian:** Head of Open Source Office, Intersect Staff

**Tex:** Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary

**Sandip:** Dquadrant

**Adam:** Adam Dean, LLC, Co-Founder, DripDropz, LLC, CIP Editors, Intersect Maintainer

**Diane:** Diane Mueller, Director Research and Advisor Services, Bitergia

**Lucas:** 45B - Cardano Enablement, Onboarding end-users; Supporting cardano Projects;

**Sebastian:** Gimbalabs contributor, MeshJS contributor, Andamio platform co-founder

**Johnny:** Non-Custodial Co-Management SysOps Engineer (Tech Janitor) for 3 Mainnet Stake Pools. Cardano Keystone Wallet Ambassador.

**Moritz:** TBD&#x20;

**Nicolas:** TBD&#x20;

**Robin:** TBD&#x20;

## Agenda 11.7.24

* Nominate Chair & Vice Chair
* Discuss Charter
* Open Forum

## Decisions/Actions

* Decision: Vote for Chair and Vice Chair Action: P. Lucas, Adam Dean voted in.\


| Discussion Point                 | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Actions: Responsible / Note                                                                                                            |
| -------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Opening and Agenda               | Terence McCutcheon welcomed participants and outlined the agenda: validation and voting for chair and vice-chair positions, review of the committee charter, and open forum.                                                                                               | N/A                                                                                                                                    |
| Chair and Vice-Chair Nominations | Terence explained prior nominations in offline discussions. Adam and Lucas received the most votes for chair and vice-chair roles. Adam voiced concerns about potential conflicts if he is chosen as chair for both the technical and open source committees.              | <p>Confirm roles for Adam as Vice-Chair and Lucas as Chair pending group vote.</p><p><br></p>                                          |
| Voting and Role Decisions        | Robin, Sebastian, and Sandip discussed their positions on the roles. Lucas was asked if he would accept the Chair position. He expressed concerns about travel conflicts but agreed to work with Adam in managing responsibilities.                                        | <p>Lucas confirmed as Chair and Adam as Vice-Chair, pending vote. Diane seconded Adam's motion to vote on these roles. </p><p><br></p> |
| Vote for Committee Roles         | Diane seconded Adam‚Äôs motion to officially nominate Lucas as Chair, Adam as Vice-Chair, and Terence as Committee Secretary. The vote was unanimous in favor.                                                                                                               | <p>Finalize role confirmations and update roles list. Motion Passed. </p><p><br></p>                                                   |
| Committee Charter Review         | Terence initiated a review of the committee charter and goals, with input on terminology changes. Diane suggested edits to emphasize "openness" and "trust" instead of "legitimacy." The group discussed the term ‚Äúcanonical‚Äù for clarity on source code authority.        | <p>Members to review and comment on the charter document asynchronously by the next meeting.</p><p><br></p>                            |
| Charter Discussion Topics        | Members discussed key terms for the charter, such as "legitimacy," "canonical," and "trust." Diane suggested additional phrasing around accessibility and open governance. Sandip and Robin provided input on the term ‚Äúlegitimacy‚Äù and its impact on non-native speakers. | <p>Terence to incorporate suggested changes and prepare for a vote on final charter wording at the next meeting.</p><p><br></p>        |
| Holiday and Meeting Schedule     | Adam proposed a modified meeting schedule due to holidays and the December convention. The committee agreed on one meeting in December on the 12th, with a break until the new year unless an urgent need arises.                                                          | <p>Update December meeting schedule and send confirmations.</p><p><br></p>                                                             |
| Open Forum and Community Q\&A    | Sem, a new member, asked about meeting schedules and channels for the committee‚Äôs goals. Diane suggested adding a dedicated channel for open discussions on the charter. Terence clarified access to meeting schedules in Discord.                                         | <p>Add open source committee discussion and goal review channels as needed in Discord.</p><p><br></p>                                  |
| Closing Remarks                  | Terence concluded the meeting, congratulating everyone on their roles and next steps.                                                                                                                                                                                      | Members to asynchronously review charter document and provide feedback by next meeting.                                                |

\
