# ðŸ˜‰ (12/19/2024) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name                         | Role        | Voting Seat (Y/N) |
| ---------------------------- | ----------- | ----------------- |
| P. Lucas                     | Chair       | Y                 |
| Adam Dean                    | Vice Chair  | Y                 |
| Terence â€˜Texâ€™ McCutcheon     | Secretary   | N                 |
| Christian Taylor             | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Sandip Pandey                | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Georg Link              DNA  | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Jonathan Kelly               | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Sebastian Pabon              | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Moritz Angermann             | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Robin BÃ¶ning                 | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Nicolas Henin            DNA | Member/Seat | Y                 |

Community/Other Attendees

* Arnaud Bailly

**Recording:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2024/12/19 07:56 CST - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1HoAGKI1EKTHXDfvyxZcegD5XBly1BLQr/view?usp=sharing)

**Transcript:** Transcript Unavailable.

**Chat Transcript:** [Open Source Committee Meeting â€“ 2024/12/19 â€“ Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1WMHfpTPHWeJl63NL6UaTeM23hQvKpFC7/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

**Christian:** Head of Open Source Office, Intersect Staff

**Tex:** Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary

**Sandip:** Dquadrant

**Adam:** Adam Dean, LLC, Co-Founder, DripDropz, LLC, CIP Editors, Intersect Maintainer

**Georg:** TBD

**Lucas:** 45B - Cardano Enablement, Onboarding end-users; Supporting cardano Projects;

**Sebastian:** Gimbalabs contributor, MeshJS contributor, Andamio platform co-founder

**Johnny:** Non-Custodial Co-Management SysOps Engineer (Tech Janitor) for 3 Mainnet Stake Pools. Cardano Keystone Wallet Ambassador.

**Moritz:** Head of Platform Engineering, IOE&#x20;

**Nicolas:** TBD&#x20;

**Robin:** Cardano Cube, LACE stake pool

## Agenda 12.19.24

* Old Business
  * Ratify Charter
* New Business
  * CF Management/Handover of cardano-addresses and related repos.&#x20;
  * Developer Advocate Workshop - Budget Proposal

## Decisions/Actions

* Decision: Ratify Charter Action: Final version of Charter agreed to and posted to GitBook.&#x20;
* Decision: Cardano-Addresses Management Action: Intersect retains Repo & IP, CF will manage the channel via a dedicated team under Intersect GitHub.&#x20;
* Decision: Add Budget Request for Dev. Advocates Action: DA Workshop added to Budget Proposal

| Discussion Point                                 | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Actions: Responsible / Note                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| ------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Meeting Welcome                                  | Intro from Chair P. Lucas.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | <p><br></p>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| Review of 2025 OSC Charter                       | Tex highlighted what areas had changed and/or been previously agreed to. Lucas encouraged the remaining attendees to take some time to review and provide feedback.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Robin suggested a brief formatting edit.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Proposal to encourage the use of Smart Contracts | Arnaud suggested adding â€˜doc footingâ€™ to the charter. The thought is that those building on Cardano should be actively using and participating with the blockchain. Lucas agreed that this is important, and asked where it could be included. Johnny highlighted that similar verbiage can be found within the Constitution, noting a mention in the OSC Charter would be duplicate. Arnuad aligned with the text in the constitution, and agreed to just have his point noted.  | Tex conducted a reaction poll during the call to place the revised charter in place immediately.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Cardano-Addresses Discussion                     | <p>Adam spoke about his experience serving as a volunteer maintainer on the cardano-addresses repo. Adam cited the team had moved from IO to CF, CF has since proposed to take over full ownership of the cardano-addresses and related repos. Decision: determine owner/holder of the aforementioned repos.<br>Arnuad added that there are latencies with the current ownership structure, this led to the request for transfer of ownership. </p>                               | <p>Options provided by  Christian:<br>1) full ownership to CF (including IP)</p><p>2) share under intersect with CF with them as the primaries</p><p>3) we archive our copy, allow CF to fork it, but intersect keeps the IP<br><br>Committee conducted vote via reactions, input, and text contributions(found in chat transcript), Option 2 Selected. Tex &#x26; Christian to create/update relevant team in GitHub. </p> |
| Developer Workshops                              | Udai (Developer Advocate) presented a proposal that would extend budget for DAâ€™s to plan and host 1 virtual and 1 in person local workshop.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | <p><br></p>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| CIR Role                                         | Adam explained what the Core-Infrastructure Working Group is, he inquired for any Committee Members that would be interested in participating in future decisions regarding what should be developed on Cardano. This is a request that has been provided to multiple Committees in order to gather a perpetual quorum for the CIR group.                                                                                                                                         | <p><br></p>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| Contribution Ladder                              | Tex cited the Contribution Ladder to have budget implications. It is very important to focus initially on the CL in 2025 to enhance the OSC budget proposal.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | <p><br></p>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| Project Incubation                               | Christian announced that the Project Incubation Lifecycle is on hold until the acceptance criteria is approved by the Committee to happen in 2025. Christian suggested that projects may go through approval with CIR prior to OSC/TSC signoff.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | <p><br></p>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| Closing                                          | Lucas closed the meeting, wished Happy Holidays                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | <p><br></p>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
