# ðŸ˜… (12/12/2024) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name                     | Role        | Voting Seat (Y/N) |
| ------------------------ | ----------- | ----------------- |
| P. Lucas                 | Chair       | Y                 |
| Adam Dean                | Vice Chair  | Y                 |
| Terence â€˜Texâ€™ McCutcheon | Secretary   | N                 |
| Christian Taylor         | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Sandip Pandey            | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Georg Link               | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Jonathan Kelly           | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Sebastian Pabon          | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Moritz Angermann         | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Robin BÃ¶ning             | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Nicolas Henin            | Member/Seat | Y                 |

Community/Other Attendees

* N/A

**Recording:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2024/12/12 07:50 CST - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1sQISnWCByCJhjm0dAbCeDybr2HopnDb3/view?usp=sharing)

**Transcript**: [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2024/12/12 07:50 CST - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/16h06_Cn17oXKzhbEQq5_th92n0MXjnkFgfl6PLR5Z7Q/edit?usp=sharing)

**Chat Transcript:** [Open Source Committee Meeting â€“ 2024/12/12 â€“ Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1YzkfcjIxLEY6REqfe5EcZwUbtZq6Nznj/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

**Christian:** Head of Open Source Office, Intersect Staff

**Tex:** Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary

**Sandip:** Dquadrant

**Adam:** Adam Dean, LLC, Co-Founder, DripDropz, LLC, CIP Editors, Intersect Maintainer

**Diane:** Diane Mueller, Director Research and Advisor Services, Bitergia

**Lucas:** 45B - Cardano Enablement, Onboarding end-users; Supporting cardano Projects;

**Sebastian:** Gimbalabs contributor, MeshJS contributor, Andamio platform co-founder

**Johnny:** Non-Custodial Co-Management SysOps Engineer (Tech Janitor) for 3 Mainnet Stake Pools. Cardano Keystone Wallet Ambassador.

**Moritz:** TBD&#x20;

**Nicolas:** TBD&#x20;

**Robin:** Cardano Cube, LACE stake pool

## Agenda 12.12.24

* Nominate Chair & Vice Chair
* Discuss Charter
* Open Forum

## Decisions/Actions

* **Decision:** Replace Diane with Georg Link **Action:** Committee Member swap accepted.

| Discussion Point      | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                   | Actions: Responsible / Note                                                                                                            |
| --------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Buenos Aires Recap    | Discussion about the recent event in Buenos Aires, its impact, and personal experiences.                                                                                                | No specific action items; general acknowledgment of experiences.                                                                       |
| Open Source Charter   | Detailed review of the charter, including responsibilities, mission, and vision. Discussions on decentralization, community involvement, and the role of open source.                   | <p>Continue asynchronous edits on the core values and responsibilities sections. Terence to update and share the draft.</p><p><br></p> |
| Committee Replacement | Agreement to replace Diane with Georg in the committee as per enterprise membership rules.                                                                                              | <p>Terence to finalize Georg's inclusion and notify the committee.</p><p><br></p>                                                      |
| Open Source Charter   | Revised phrasing to emphasize decentralization and inclusivity. Eliminated redundancy and simplified messaging.                                                                         | <p>Incorporate agreed-upon edits into the document.</p><p><br></p>                                                                     |
| Open Source Charter   | Discussed reordering responsibilities for better clarity and alignment with timelines.                                                                                                  | Reorder responsibilities list to reflect the timeline of activities.                                                                   |
| Open Source Charter   | Reviewed and debated the format and phrasing of the "open," "sustainable," "quality," and "citizenship" values. Focused on positive framing and reducing redundancy.                    | <p>Terence to implement changes and revisit remaining issues asynchronously.</p><p><br></p>                                            |
| Open Source Charter   | Question raised about including collaboration with diverse node implementations (e.g., Golang, Haskell). Consensus on broadening the term "canonical" to include fostering inclusivity. | <p>Terence to refine language for inclusivity without implying exclusivity.</p><p><br></p>                                             |
| Code of Conduct       | Discussed adopting the existing Intersect code of conduct versus creating a bespoke document for the committee.                                                                         | Refer to Intersect code of conduct and include relevant references in the OSC charter.                                                 |
| Next Steps            | Agreed to finalize pending issues asynchronously and focus on the core values section.                                                                                                  | Members to review and provide feedback on the latest draft by the next meeting.                                                        |
