# ðŸ™‚ (01/09/2025) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name                                  | Role        | Voting Seat (Y/N) |
| ------------------------------------- | ----------- | ----------------- |
| P. Lucas                              | Chair       | Y                 |
| Adam Dean                             | Vice Chair  | Y                 |
| Terence â€˜Texâ€™ McCutcheon              | Secretary   | N                 |
| Christian Taylor                      | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Sandip Pandey                  NP     | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Georg Link                            | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Jonathan Kelly                        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Sebastian Pabon                       | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Moritz Angermann                      | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Robin BÃ¶ning                          | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Nicolas Henin                      NP | Member/Seat | Y                 |

Community/Other Attendees

* Justin Schreiner
* Logan Panchot
* Matt Laux
* Udai Solanki

**Recording:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/01/09 07:56 CST - Recording ](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1FWQjySC6V1Ja7MshFkmsqqisbJ8bubzZ/view?usp=sharing)

**Transcript:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/01/09 07:56 CST - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qITboh_XMd-hvCsTqBZ1qdvBuX5kroOa9usIA2eZlZk/edit?usp=sharing)

**Chat Transcript:** [Open Source Committee Meeting â€“ 2025/01/09 â€“ Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/16f4jxA1L4mjrzZYe47U2GDsmS6gSqb1h/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

**Christian:** Head of Open Source Office, Intersect Staff

**Tex:** Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary

**Sandip:** Dquadrant

**Adam:** Adam Dean, LLC, Co-Founder, DripDropz, LLC, CIP Editors, Intersect Maintainer

**Georg:** Georg Link, Bitergia/CHAOSS, OSC member

**Lucas:** 45B - Cardano Enablement, Onboarding end-users; Supporting cardano Projects;

**Sebastian:** Gimbalabs contributor, MeshJS contributor, Andamio platform co-founder

**Johnny:** Non-Custodial Co-Management SysOps Engineer (Tech Janitor) for 3 Mainnet Stake Pools. Cardano Keystone Wallet Ambassador.

**Moritz:** TBD&#x20;

**Nicolas:** TBD&#x20;

**Robin:** Cardano Cube, LACE stake pool

## Agenda 01.09.25

* Old Business
  * Contribution Ladder Feedback/Review
  * Project Incubation Feedback/Review
  * Direction to revise OS Strategy
  * Review of Formal Decision for cardano-addresses
* New Business
  * Updates from Developer Advocates
  * Open Forum

## Decisions/Actions

* Decision: Contribution Ladder Action: More refinement needed.
* Decision: Project Incubation Action: More refinement needed.

| Discussion Point                     | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Actions: Responsible / Note                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Welcome and Call Introduction        | Pedro Lucas welcomed attendees, acknowledged recording, and initiated the meeting. A quorum was confirmed.                                                                                                                                                                           | N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Contribution Ladder                  | Discussion on two documents: Contribution Ladder and Project Incubation. Concerns raised about the structure and purpose of the Contribution Ladder document. Need for clear progression pathways and removal of bias references. Consensus on refining the document for next steps. | <p>- Redline the Contribution Ladder document.</p><p>- Schedule a follow-up meeting to refine the document.</p><p>- Align the Contribution Ladder with practical application and strategy.</p>                          |
| Project Incubation                   | Reviewed the current status of the Project Incubation framework. Emphasized the importance of general guidelines and thresholds for project acceptance and progression. Highlighted examples and workflow for assessing projects.                                                    | <p>- Refine the Project Incubation document.</p><p>- Gather feedback on acceptance thresholds.</p><p>- Explore tools for measuring project success and security.</p><p>- Include workflow snapshot in the document.</p> |
| Ownership and Funding of Open Source | Debate over repository ownership for funding eligibility for external projects. Consensus on avoiding mandatory ownership transfer to Intersect for funding. Need for flexibility and clear open-source criteria for projects seeking support.                                       | <p>- Develop criteria for open-source funding eligibility.</p><p>- Maintain optional repository transfer pathways.</p><p>- Define clear guidelines for funding approval without requiring ownership changes.</p>        |
| Working Group Updates                | Updates on Developer Advocates, including workshops and webinars. Commercialization Working Group's status discussed, with concerns raised about transparency and accountability.                                                                                                    | <p>- Invite Commercialization Working Group representative to provide updates.</p><p>- Schedule updates from working groups during OSC meetings.</p><p>- Increase transparency for working group activities.</p>        |
| 2024 Goals Review                    | Suggestion to review 2024 goals and assess progress, identify unmet goals, and carry forward or drop items for 2025. Discussed aligning strategy with past achievements and current focus areas.                                                                                     | <p>- Prepare a review of 2024 goals.</p><p>- Update strategy document based on progress.</p><p>- Schedule reviews for goal alignment and performance evaluation.</p>                                                    |
| Commercialization Working Group      | Concerns over limited updates from the working group. Importance of clear communication and updates on activities emphasized.                                                                                                                                                        | <p>- Clarify the working group's role and deliverables.</p><p>- Synchronize updates with OSC committee activities.</p><p>- Publish meeting updates for visibility and transparency.</p>                                 |
| Open Forum                           | Topics raised include aligning incubation and commercialization efforts, refining strategy, and ensuring consistency across projects. Agreed to progress asynchronously and maintain transparent updates.                                                                            | <p>- Sync discussions across working groups.</p><p>- Publish updated meeting minutes and related documents.</p><p>- Maintain asynchronous progress on key documents.</p>                                                |
