# ðŸ˜‰ (01/16/2025) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name                     | Attendance | Role        | Voting Seat (Y/N) |
| ------------------------ | ---------- | ----------- | ----------------- |
| P. Lucas                 | Yes        | Chair       | Y                 |
| Adam Dean                | Yes        | Vice Chair  | Y                 |
| Terence â€˜Texâ€™ McCutcheon | Yes        | Secretary   | N                 |
| Christian Taylor         | Yes        | Member/Seat | N                 |
| Sandip Pandey            | No         | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Georg Link               | No         | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Jonathan Kelly           | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Sebastian Pabon          | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Moritz Angermann         | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Robin BÃ¶ning             | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Nicolas Henin            | No         | Member/Seat | Y                 |

Community/Other Attendees

* N/A

**Recording:** [OSC Work Session - 2025/01/16 07:52 CST - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Q3DFG6HwOKXFhnXRCWqFb9Vdf7xnw5Ut/view?usp=sharing)

**Transcript:** [OSC Work Session - 2025/01/16 07:52 CST - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kef647pxqxxSGQU57M0NAKLaDiFYePFG1ldzy6r0zmw/edit?usp=sharing)

**Chat Transcript:** [Open Source Committee Meeting â€“ 2025/01/16 â€“ Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1QEwi7eRXV2d9MsWXoOjuyThyJcyOOyFh/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

**Christian:** Head of Open Source Office, Intersect Staff

**Tex:** Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary

**Sandip:** Dquadrant

**Adam:** Adam Dean, LLC, Co-Founder, DripDropz, LLC, CIP Editors, Intersect Maintainer

**Georg:** Bitergia

**Lucas:** 45B - Cardano Enablement, Onboarding end-users; Supporting cardano Projects;

**Sebastian:** Gimbalabs contributor, MeshJS contributor, Andamio platform co-founder

**Johnny:** Non-Custodial Co-Management SysOps Engineer (Tech Janitor) for 3 Mainnet Stake Pools. Cardano Keystone Wallet Ambassador.

**Moritz:** Head of Platform Engineering, IOE&#x20;

**Nicolas:** Technical Architect at IOG (Innovation R\&D)

**Robin:** Cardano Cube, LACE stake pool

## Agenda 01.16.25

* Old Business
  * N/A
* New Business
  * Bug Bounty Budget item
  * Project Incubation program review

## Decisions/Actions

* Bug Bounty Budget: The OSC agreed to include a $300,000 bug bounty allocation in the budget proposal.
* Project Incubation Lifecycle Terminology: The term "abandonment" in the project incubation lifecycle framework will be changed to "archival."
* Project Incubation Workflow: Lucas will create a visual workflow diagram to improve the clarity and user-friendliness of the project incubation process.\


| Topic                          | Discussion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Action Items                                                                                                               |
| ------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Welcome and Introductions      | Terence welcomed attendees. Moritz apologized for missing the previous meeting.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | <p><br></p>                                                                                                                |
| Budget Discussion - Bug Bounty | Christian discussed the proposed budget, including a dedicated $300k for bug bounties. He explained the need for a separate bounty program and the increase in the overall budget to $3.2 million.                                                                                                      | Christian to finalize budget proposal and submit it to the budget committee.                                               |
| Bug Bounty Program Framework   | Discussion around how the bug bounty program would be managed, including validation of bugs by the TSC and potential involvement of the security council.                                                                                                                                               | Christian to collaborate with others to draft a framework for the bug bounty program and present it to the OSC for review. |
| Bug Bounty Budget Allocation   | Jonathan raised the question of what happens if the full bug bounty budget isn't spent in a given year. Adam suggested rolling over unused funds to increase the potential reward and attract more hackers. Jonathan argued for a cap to standardize rewards and prevent holding off on reporting bugs. | Framework discussion to include determining the cap, rollover mechanism, and reward values.                                |
| Retroactive Bug Bounty Reward  | Pedro inquired about the possibility of retroactively rewarding Mike Hornin for finding and reporting a critical bug.                                                                                                                                                                                   | Christian to investigate mechanisms for retroactively rewarding bug reporters.                                             |
| Bug Bounty Reward Criteria     | Pedro asked about the process for determining the size of bug bounty rewards.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Framework discussion to include establishing criteria for bug criticality and corresponding reward ranges.                 |
| Bias in Bug Bounty Rewards     | Robin emphasized the importance of a fair process to avoid perceived bias in awarding bug bounties.                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Framework discussion to include a process that mitigates potential bias in reward allocation.                              |
| Bug Bounty Program Scope       | Discussion about which projects would be included in the bug bounty program (e.g., core Cardano projects, incubation projects).                                                                                                                                                                         | Review of core Cardano projects to be conducted next week.                                                                 |
| Project Incubation Process     | Terence introduced the project incubation lifecycle framework, including the stages of incubation, growth, maturity, decline, and archive. Adam suggested changing "abandonment" to "archival."                                                                                                         | Terence to update the project incubation document, changing "abandonment" to "archival."                                   |
| Project Incubation Workflow    | Pedro shared his perspective on the project incubation workflow from an applicant's point of view, suggesting improvements to make it more accessible and user-friendly. He offered to create a visual workflow diagram.                                                                                | Pedro to create a visual workflow diagram for the project incubation process.                                              |
| Project Triage                 | Adam discussed the need for a triage process to direct projects to the appropriate committees (OSC, product, TSC).                                                                                                                                                                                      | Triage group to continue developing its processes.                                                                         |
