# ðŸ¤“ (02/20/2025) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name                     | Attendance | Role        | Voting Seat (Y/N) |
| ------------------------ | ---------- | ----------- | ----------------- |
| P. Lucas                 | Yes        | Chair       | Y                 |
| Adam Dean                | Yes        | Vice Chair  | Y                 |
| Terence â€˜Texâ€™ McCutcheon | Yes        | Secretary   | N                 |
| Christian Taylor         | Yes        | Member/Seat | N                 |
| Sandip Pandey            | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Georg Link               | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Jonathan Kelly           | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Sebastian Pabon          | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Moritz Angermann         | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Robin BÃ¶ning             | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Nicolas Henin            | No         | Member/Seat | Y                 |

Community/Other Attendees

* Alex Seregin
* Jordan Hill
* Benjamin Hart
* Kristijan Kowalsky

**Recording:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/02/20 07:53 CST - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1xggU4QTcIFE7VxeJW62GCkAwnpzVAlWj/view?usp=sharing)

**Transcript:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/02/20 07:53 CST - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1w3N3GIiPOv54j5djYzeUpJP-n4GegQpVOzLr3iII338/edit?usp=sharing)

**Chat Transcript:** [Open Source Committee Meeting â€“ 2025/02/20 â€“ Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1E3MzPosR8ekO1sP-sZFMXzhvxFgI0msc/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

**Christian:** Head of Open Source Office, Intersect Staff

**Tex:** Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary

**Sandip:** Dquadrant

**Adam:** Adam Dean, LLC, Co-Founder, DripDropz, LLC, CIP Editors, Intersect Maintainer

**Georg:**  Bitergia

**Lucas:** 45B - Cardano Enablement, Onboarding end-users; Supporting cardano Projects;

**Sebastian:** Gimbalabs contributor, MeshJS contributor, Andamio platform co-founder

**Johnny:** Non-Custodial Co-Management SysOps Engineer (Tech Janitor) for 3 Mainnet Stake Pools. Cardano Keystone Wallet Ambassador.

**Moritz:** Head of Platform Engineering, IOE&#x20;

**Nicolas:** Technical Architect at IOG (Innovation R\&D)&#x20;

**Robin:** Cardano Cube, LACE stake pool

## Agenda 02.20.25

* Old Business
  * Developer Advocate Check-in
  * Bug Bounty Framework Review
* New Business
  * Budget Proposal Changes
    * Tooling Working Group
    * Commercialization WG - Accelerator program
  * Election Application Questions, Social Statement
  * Review projects for Project Incubation program

## Decisions/Actions

*

    <figure><img src="https://lh7-rt.googleusercontent.com/docsz/AD_4nXcAslIKRSa_h_t0bMJCPxhAcUG4sCjX9ermesfrRXP-X4OVb8nVR-s7D3rzMEVtK4FWHyNZxVqJFzDwrsllpgXsBA-mV0aHJB74mKLcZgXLFadlYrH4Uk4tuLvTFKNQ9e8WptA5?key=oGOhEbiTsyI87YHrUxOHwLkC" alt=""><figcaption><p><strong>Decision:</strong> Start Tooling WG</p></figcaption></figure>
* **Decision:** Accelerator Program Commercialization WG Action: Vote in Discord.\


| Topic                                                   | Discussion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Action Items                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| ------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Tooling Working Group Proposal                          | Christian Taylor proposed a new Tooling Working Group to identify, fund, and support mission-critical open-source libraries used in Cardano. The working group would evaluate projects based on community usage, licensing, program overlap, governance, and ROI. Concerns were raised about potential conflicts of interest with working group members. Adam Dean emphasized the need for responsible fund deployment and avoiding duplication of funding sources. | Charter the Tooling Working Group. Define criteria for project selection and conflict of interest mitigation. Jonathan Kelly and Sandip Pandey volunteered for the working group. Edit the budget and communicate changes to the community. |
| Accelerator/Incubator Program                           | Kristijan Kowalsky presented a proposal for an accelerator/incubator program to support Cardano startups. The program would provide resources and mentorship to help startups grow and become self-sustainable. Adam Dean inquired about the number of projects that could be facilitated per pilot. Kristijan Kowalsky highlighted the need for a funnel to bring startups to Intersect.                                                                           | Share the program document with the committee. Describe how project funding would be used. Conduct a poll in Discord to gauge community support. Discuss the budget breakdown further.                                                      |
| Open Source Committee Election Questions                | Terence McCutcheon discussed adding three questions to the OSC election application to gather more information about applicants' experience. Jonathan Kelly suggested adding questions about experience with contract management, auditing, budgeting, and policy setting. Christian Taylor suggested a question about developer community building.                                                                                                                | Gather feedback on the proposed questions in Discord. Draft a social statement for Intersect to market the OSC during the election period.                                                                                                  |
| Immortal Projects Incubation Program                    | Discussion about potential overlap and conflict between the OSC's incubation program and the Technical Steering Committee's (TSC) process. Adam Dean expressed concern about duplication of efforts and the need for a clear entry point for projects. Terence McCutcheon highlighted the importance of the Tooling Working Group in triaging projects.                                                                                                             | Address the overlap and conflict concerns asynchronously. Prioritize the Tooling Working Group for triaging incubation projects.                                                                                                            |
| Blockchain-Based Carbon Credit Tokenization Marketplace | Review of a project submitted by Emergo for incubation. Adam Dean raised concerns about the project's potential preferential treatment towards a stablecoin under development by Emergo. Discussion about the project's benefit to the Cardano ecosystem.                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Clarify the project's goals and benefits to the Cardano ecosystem. The Tooling Working Group will conduct a first pass review of the project.                                                                                               |
| Developer Advocate Check-in                             | Alex Seregin provided an update on the Developer Advocate team's activities, including working with different developer communities and the Developer Experience Working Group. Pedro Lucas encouraged the Developer Advocate team to continue providing updates in OSC calls and the developer working group channel.                                                                                                                                              | Alex Seregin to provide regular updates to the OSC. Utilize both the developer working group channel and GitHub discussions for communication and updates.                                                                                  |
| Topic                                                   | Discussion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Action Items                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| Tooling Working Group Proposal                          | Christian Taylor proposed a new Tooling Working Group to identify, fund, and support mission-critical open-source libraries used in Cardano. The working group would evaluate projects based on community usage, licensing, program overlap, governance, and ROI. Concerns were raised about potential conflicts of interest with working group members. Adam Dean emphasized the need for responsible fund deployment and avoiding duplication of funding sources. | Charter the Tooling Working Group. Define criteria for project selection and conflict of interest mitigation. Jonathan Kelly and Sandip Pandey volunteered for the working group. Edit the budget and communicate changes to the community. |
| Accelerator/Incubator Program                           | Kristijan Kowalsky presented a proposal for an accelerator/incubator program to support Cardano startups. The program would provide resources and mentorship to help startups grow and become self-sustainable. Adam Dean inquired about the number of projects that could be facilitated per pilot. Kristijan Kowalsky highlighted the need for a funnel to bring startups to Intersect.                                                                           | Share the program document with the committee. Describe how project funding would be used. Conduct a poll in Discord to gauge community support. Discuss the budget breakdown further.                                                      |
| Open Source Committee Election Questions                | Terence McCutcheon discussed adding three questions to the OSC election application to gather more information about applicants' experience. Jonathan Kelly suggested adding questions about experience with contract management, auditing, budgeting, and policy setting. Christian Taylor suggested a question about developer community building.                                                                                                                | Gather feedback on the proposed questions in Discord. Draft a social statement for Intersect to market the OSC during the election period.                                                                                                  |
| Immortal Projects Incubation Program                    | Discussion about potential overlap and conflict between the OSC's incubation program and the Technical Steering Committee's (TSC) process. Adam Dean expressed concern about duplication of efforts and the need for a clear entry point for projects. Terence McCutcheon highlighted the importance of the Tooling Working Group in triaging projects.                                                                                                             | Address the overlap and conflict concerns asynchronously. Prioritize the Tooling Working Group for triaging incubation projects.                                                                                                            |
