# ðŸ˜† (03/06/2025) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name                     | Attendance | Role        | Voting Seat (Y/N) |
| ------------------------ | ---------- | ----------- | ----------------- |
| P. Lucas                 | No         | Chair       | Y                 |
| Adam Dean                | No         | Vice Chair  | Y                 |
| Terence â€˜Texâ€™ McCutcheon | Yes        | Secretary   | N                 |
| Christian Taylor         | Yes        | Member/Seat | N                 |
| Sandip Pandey            | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Georg Link               | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Jonathan Kelly           | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Sebastian Pabon          | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Moritz Angermann         | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Robin BÃ¶ning             | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Nicolas Henin            | No         | Member/Seat | Y                 |

**Community/Other Attendees**

* Benjamin Hart
* Bernard Sibanda
* Jordan Hill
* KM
* Sublimedegree 357
* Suganya Arun

**Recording:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/03/06 - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1TyI8LVC65O4WaRelys0M_OKwNy5ZYTiq/view?usp=sharing)

**Transcript:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/03/06 - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ATdk1y9PxWwgLb86oj6HeH0v1bSQf-8I8qmifY7dnYQ/edit?usp=sharing)

**Chat Transcript:** [Open Source Committee Meeting â€“ 2025/03/06 â€“ Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1OX79-eiogYjjUfzfghmFhzuFDb63m27G/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

**Christian:** Head of Open Source Office, Intersect Staff

**Tex:** Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Committee Liaison

**Sandip:** Dquadrant

**Adam:** Adam Dean, LLC, Co-Founder, DripDropz, LLC, CIP Editors, Intersect Maintainer

**Georg:** Bitergia

**Lucas:** 45B - Cardano Enablement, Onboarding end-users; Supporting cardano Projects;

**Sebastian:** Gimbalabs contributor, MeshJS contributor, Andamio platform co-founder

**Johnny:** Non-Custodial Co-Management SysOps Engineer (Tech Janitor) for 3 Mainnet Stake Pools. Cardano Keystone Wallet Ambassador.

**Moritz:** Head of Platform Engineering, IOE&#x20;

**Nicolas:** Technical Architect at IOG (Innovation R\&D)

**Robin:** Cardano Cube, LACE stake pool

## Agenda 03.06.25

* Old Business
  * Developer Advocate Check-in
    * Developer Experience WG
  * Project Incubation Reviews
* New Business
  * Committee Member Participation in WGâ€™s
  * AOB

## Decisions/Actions

* Decision: N/A Chair & Vice Chair not in attendance Action: N/A\


| Topic                                                     | Discussion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Action Items                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| --------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Welcome & Introductions                                   | Terence McCutcheon welcomed attendees and noted the absence of the Vice Chair. The meeting would be treated as a work session, with no formal decisions.                                                                                                                            | <p><br></p>                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| Budget Process Update                                     | Robin BÃ¶ning inquired about the budget process and the pushback from Charles. Terence McCutcheon stated that he was awaiting an update from another meeting and would share information as soon as it became available.                                                             | Terence McCutcheon to provide an update on the budget process.                                                                                                                                                              |
| Developer Advocate Check-in                               | Bernard Sibanda and Suganya Arun provided an update on the Developer Experience working group sessions. They highlighted key findings from the developer survey and discussed the need for improved documentation, tutorials, and a centralized repository for Cardano information. | <p>- Centralize Cardano information into a single repository.<br>- Create video tutorials for basic Cardano transactions and smart contract interactions.  <br>- Include the developer survey on the Intersect website.</p> |
| Committee Member Engagement in Working Groups             | Terence McCutcheon encouraged committee members to participate in the working groups, specifically the DevX working group.                                                                                                                                                          | Terence McCutcheon to share the calendar link for the DevX working group with committee members.                                                                                                                            |
| Project Incubation Reviews                                | Discussion centered on reviewing four project submissions from Emergo for incubation. Key considerations included project fit, benefits, and whether Intersect was the best place to support the projects.                                                                          | <p>- Committee members to review project submissions in ClickUp.<br>- Determine whether to approve, reject, or request further information for each project.</p>                                                            |
| Clarification on Commercialization and Project Incubation | Sublimedegree 357 sought clarification on the relationship between commercialization and open-source projects. Christian Taylor explained the role of the Commercialization working group in supporting projects with commercial incentives.                                        | <p><br></p>                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| Enterprise Adoption and Growth Working Group              | Terence McCutcheon announced the formation of an Enterprise Adoption and Growth working group under the Growth and Marketing committee.                                                                                                                                             | <p><br></p>                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| Project Submission Process                                | Discussion on refining the project submission process, including the creation of forms and potential routing to different committees.                                                                                                                                               | <p>- Develop forms for general project submissions.<br>- Revise standard documentation for project submissions.</p>                                                                                                         |
| Review of Specific Project Proposals                      | The committee reviewed individual project proposals, including a carbon credit system, a DeFi gateway, a rewards calculator, and the Cardano Serialization Library (CSL).                                                                                                           | - Conduct a Slack vote on each proposal.                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Cardano Serialization Library (CSL)                       | Discussion on whether to incubate the CSL, with consideration of its maturity, value to the ecosystem, and potential for improvement.                                                                                                                                               | <p><br></p>                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| Accelerator Working Group Proposal                        | Christian Taylor presented the Accelerator working group proposal, which included a budget of 35k-50k.                                                                                                                                                                              | - Conduct a Slack vote on the Accelerator working group proposal.                                                                                                                                                           |
