# ðŸ™ƒ (03/20/2025) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name                     | Attendance | Role        | Voting Seat (Y/N) |
| ------------------------ | ---------- | ----------- | ----------------- |
| P. Lucas                 | Yes        | Chair       | Y                 |
| Adam Dean                | Yes        | Vice Chair  | Y                 |
| Terence â€˜Texâ€™ McCutcheon | Yes        | Secretary   | N                 |
| Christian Taylor         | Yes        | Member/Seat | N                 |
| Sandip Pandey            | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Georg Link               | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Jonathan Kelly           | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Sebastian Pabon          | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Moritz Angermann         | No         | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Robin BÃ¶ning             | No         | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Nicolas Henin            | No         | Member/Seat | Y                 |

**Community/Other Attendees**

* Abhik Nag
* Alex Seregin
* Elaine Cardenas
* Jordan Hill
* Kristijan Kowalsky&#x20;

**Recording:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/03/20 - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1MB3PcISxsESuhH8vnjT7tzxqZotoHLzd/view?usp=sharing)

**Transcript:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/03/20 - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QVj0kvoBCzqyRUSfC5uBOR54nrO1YligsNH3dPdM3pU/edit?usp=sharing)

**Chat Transcript:** [Open Source Committee Meeting â€“ 2025/03/20 â€“ Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1AX6ESfnOoDMlCxomwmFwvlzHLe0YTqb0/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

**Christian:** Head of Open Source Office, Intersect Staff

**Tex:** Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary

**Sandip:** Dquadrant

**Adam:** Adam Dean, LLC, Co-Founder, DripDropz, LLC, CIP Editors, Intersect Maintainer

**Georg:** Bitergia

**Lucas:** 45B - Cardano Enablement, Onboarding end-users; Supporting cardano Projects;

**Sebastian:** Gimbalabs contributor, MeshJS contributor, Andamio platform co-founder

**Johnny:** Non-Custodial Co-Management SysOps Engineer (Tech Janitor) for 3 Mainnet Stake Pools. Cardano Keystone Wallet Ambassador.

**Moritz:** Head of Platform Engineering, IOE&#x20;

**Nicolas:** Technical Architect at IOG (Innovation R\&D)&#x20;

**Robin:** Cardano Cube, LACE stake pool

## Agenda 03.20.25

* Old Business
  * Developer Advocate Check-in
  * Project Incubation Reviews
  * Accelerator Proposal: Recommendation/Approval
* New Business
  * Committee member engagement in OSC WGâ€™s
  * Developer Advocate Program updates
  * AOB

## Decisions/Actions

* **Approval of the Accelerator Proposal:** The committee voted to approve the accelerator proposal put forward by Kristijan Kowalsky.
* **Project Incubation Process:** There was a decision to refine the project incubation process, including the criteria for accepting projects. Specifically, the responses to project applications should have the options of "accept recommendation", "review revise and resubmit" or "reject".
* **Direction on Budget Proposals:** The committee agreed to move forward with submitting their budget proposal under the new guidelines, with the inclusion of a "delegation of authority" request to the DREPs.&#x20;

| Topic                           | Discussion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Action Items                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| ------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Welcome and Introductions       | Terence McCutcheon, Pedro Lucas, Georg Link, and others greeted each other.                                                                                                                                                                    | N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Agenda and Quorum               | Pedro Lucas reviewed the agenda; Terence McCutcheon noted the initial lack of quorum.                                                                                                                                                          | N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Developer Advocates Check-in    | Alex Seregin provided an update on the developer survey, including feedback and planned analysis. Terence McCutcheon discussed the upcoming release of the analysis and the OSO office hours highlighting the developer advocates.             | Alex Seregin to present survey results at the next meeting. Terence McCutcheon to release the analysis on Wednesday next week.                                                                             |
| Project Incubation Review       | Discussion on the project incubation program, including rationale and acceptance criteria. Sandip Pandey and Georg Link suggested revisions to the rationale. Adam Dean and Christian Taylor discussed the goals and processes of the program. | Sandip Pandey to merge remarks and provide final text. Christian Taylor to review and refine entry criteria for projects. Georg Link to formalize the responses as accept, revise and resubmit, or reject. |
| Budget Pivot                    | Discussion on the budget changes and the need for delegated authority from DREPs. Christian Taylor shared a draft proposal document. Kristijan Kowalsky discussed the issue of stipends for committee members.                                 | Christian Taylor to share the draft proposal document after legal review. Intersect to submit a proposal for their funding, including member incentives.                                                   |
| Accelerator Proposal            | Kristijan Kowalsky discussed the accelerator proposal and interest from Antler VC. Adam Dean expressed opposition to giving more funds to Project Catalyst. The committee voted to approve the accelerator proposal.                           | N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Commercialization Working Group | Invitation for OSC members to attend the commercialization working group meeting.                                                                                                                                                              | OSC members to attend the commercialization working group meeting.                                                                                                                                         |
| Dev Advocate Document           | Terence McCutcheon shared a document for asynchronous input from the committee.                                                                                                                                                                | All members to provide input on the Dev Advocate document.                                                                                                                                                 |
| Intersect Elections             | Pedro Lucas encouraged members to participate in the upcoming elections and discussed the importance of member voting.                                                                                                                         | Members to consider running for seats and actively participate in voting.                                                                                                                                  |
| Elaine Cardenas Introduction    | Elaine Cardenas introduced herself and her work with IDA and Hydra.                                                                                                                                                                            | N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Hydra Networking                | Discussion on networking between Hydra contributors, including Adam Dean and Elaine Cardenas.                                                                                                                                                  | N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
