# ðŸ˜… (3/22/2024) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

* &#x20;Nicholas Clarke (Chair)  [Nicholas Clarke](mailto:nicholas.clarke@tweag.io)&#x20;
* Christian Taylor (OSPO Rep) [christian.taylor@cardanombo.org](mailto:christian.taylor@cardanombo.org)
* Sebastian Nagel [sebastian.nagel@iohk.io](mailto:sebastian.nagel@iohk.io)
* Marcin Szamotulski [marcin.szamotulski@iohk.io](mailto:marcin.szamotulski@iohk.io)
* Bogdan Coman [Bogdan Coman](mailto:bogdan.coman@moduscreate.com)
* Gheorghe-Aurel Pacurar [Gheorghe-Aurel Pacurar](mailto:gheorghe.pacurar@moduscreate.com)
* Daniel Eduardo Mosquera Pava&#x20;
* Adam Dean
* Daniel Firth

**Recording:**  [Open Source Committee (Intersect) (2024-03-22 08:03 GMT-7)](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1P-3yvSay6ZYreDpBmD88wWmvrls_lPX1/view?usp=sharing)

**Transcript:** [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wYPkI6cv3dSHLub2yXxpwSZX8-sOn9f\_d\_MMPl3B2js/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wYPkI6cv3dSHLub2yXxpwSZX8-sOn9f_d_MMPl3B2js/edit?usp=sharing)

## Agenda

### Old Business:

1. Review Mission, Vision, Values from Last Week

### New Business:&#x20;

1. Strategic Pillars
2. Goals
3. Operational Items

## Meeting notes and action items:&#x20;

| Discussion Point            | Notes / Action Items                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Responsible                                                                                                                                                                |
| --------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Agenda and Updates          | Agenda was introduced by Gheorghe-Aurel Pacurar. Christian Taylor noted a last-minute change. No updates from working groups. Sebastian Nagel discussed his agenda items, including nominating Daniel Firth as his replacement and discussing relationships between committees.          | Record the official vote to nominate Daniel Firth. Update Daniel's access to relevant resources (Google Drive, Slack, etc.).                                               |
| Sustainability Goals        | Discussions on diversifying maintainers, onboarding contributors, and ensuring decentralized contributions. Emphasis on avoiding single points of failure in maintenance. Consideration of removing "funding models" from sustainability goals and focusing on technical sustainability. | Develop a contributor onboarding path and diversified maintainer list. Prepare guidelines for project sustainability.                                                      |
| Strategic Areas and Pillars | Focus on governance and decision-making, sustainability, and community engagement. Concerns were raised about alignment and feasibility. Adjustments suggested to objectives and goals to ensure alignment with strategic areas.                                                         | Finalize strategic areas with actionable objectives. Refine goals for alignment and clarity.                                                                               |
| Governance Framework        | Discussed the percentage of decisions made with community involvement and ensuring transparency. Suggestions for a measurable impact and roadmap. Transparency highlighted as a key metric for progress.                                                                                 | Define measurable transparency metrics and community involvement percentages. Develop a roadmap for governance actions.                                                    |
| Project Sustainability      | Concerns about fragmented project contributions and case studies such as Lucid and CID. Proposal to measure and reduce fragmentation while fostering collaboration and project survival.                                                                                                 | Establish guidelines for reducing fragmentation and fostering collaboration. Draft measurable goals for project sustainability.                                            |
| Community Growth            | Discussed increasing active contributors with a focus on contributions rather than arbitrary metrics. Suggestion to use Bitergia analytics for defining and measuring contributions.                                                                                                     | Use Bitergia analytics to establish baseline metrics and define growth objectives. Focus on increasing meaningful contributions.                                           |
| Next Steps and Deadlines    | Timeline established to finalize strategy by the end of the month. Additional working sessions planned to refine proposals.                                                                                                                                                              | Update Miro board with comments and proposals. Prepare next iteration of goals and actions for review. Schedule additional meetings and finalize strategy by end of month. |
| Meeting Logistics           | Announcement of upcoming holiday impacting availability. Proposal to move next meeting to Thursday for full participation.                                                                                                                                                               | Schedule the next meeting on Thursday for ratification. Ensure all participants are informed and prepared.                                                                 |
