# ðŸ«¢ (04/03/2025) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name                     | Attendance | Role        | Voting Seat (Y/N) |
| ------------------------ | ---------- | ----------- | ----------------- |
| P. Lucas                 | Yes        | Chair       | Y                 |
| Adam Dean                | No         | Vice Chair  | Y                 |
| Terence â€˜Texâ€™ McCutcheon | Yes        | Secretary   | N                 |
| Christian Taylor         | Yes        | Member/Seat | N                 |
| Sandip Pandey            | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Georg Link               | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Jonathan Kelly           | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Sebastian Pabon          | No         | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Moritz Angermann         | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Robin BÃ¶ning             | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Nicolas Henin            | No         | Member/Seat | Y                 |

Community/Other Attendees

* Bernard Sibanda
* Jordan Hill
* Udai Solanki

**Recording:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/04/03 - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1IJkuS7yiC3s3tGp0n4WGj-gqIQ5myUvr/view?usp=sharing)

**Transcript:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/04/03 07:57 CDT - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14s0fAbuPD7Y9sujWuo02EpFm_cnJSCzDH24iHRYN_Co/edit?usp=sharing)

**Chat Transcript:** [Open Source Committee Meeting â€“ 2025/04/03 â€“ Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/12ntI5RK1aKPrWv3UHhMewOTq0J3vKqXH/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

**Christian:** Head of Open Source Office, Intersect Staff

**Tex:** Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary

**Sandip:** Dquadrant

**Adam:** Adam Dean, LLC, Co-Founder, DripDropz, LLC, CIP Editors, Intersect Maintainer

**Georg:** Bitergia

**Lucas:** 45B - Cardano Enablement, Onboarding end-users; Supporting cardano Projects;

**Sebastian:** Gimbalabs contributor, MeshJS contributor, Andamio platform co-founder

**Johnny:** Non-Custodial Co-Management SysOps Engineer (Tech Janitor) for 3 Mainnet Stake Pools. Cardano Keystone Wallet Ambassador.

**Moritz:** Head of Platform Engineering, IOE&#x20;

**Nicolas:** Technical Architect at IOG (Innovation R\&D)&#x20;

**Robin:** Cardano Cube, LACE stake pool

## Agenda 04.03.25

![](https://lh7-rt.googleusercontent.com/docsz/AD_4nXe4fDF0ddbYgx3uLHdPMKb22BJ7THcwVQYMRJwxAaVNLRw5McefzJA2Vhx3cfpiw9A4YNhtY2tinHdKENQrJ0xqQEL6wxtyuauzrSHHrNpKAHbEjf5RePk7A_yUZ3FylHPwEMTvIg?key=oGOhEbiTsyI87YHrUxOHwLkC)

## Decisions/Actions

**Scheduling a Work Session:**

* The committee decided to schedule a work session for Wednesday, April 9th, at 5 PM UTC, to discuss the developer advocate program.

**Creating Collaborative Documents:**

* It was decided that Pedro Lucas would create a HackMD file for collaborative note-taking regarding the rewards recognition program.

**Producing a Blog Post:**

* Udai Solanki agreed to create a blog post summarizing the India Developer Summit, and Robin BÃ¶ning agreed to collaborate on publishing it on Cardano Cube.

**Reviewing and Providing Feedback:**

* The committee agreed to review several documents, including the developer experience survey results and the paid open source model framework, and provide feedback.

**Coordination for Podcast Participation:**

* The group agreed to coordinate to find a OSC memeber to participate in the open source project podcast.

**Follow up on Elections:**

* Pedro Lucas was tasked with following up with the committee members regarding the reapplication for their seats.

**Follow up on Timezone issues:**

* Pedro Lucas was tasked with following up with Moritz Angermann to discuss timezone solutions.

| Topic                                         | Discussion                                                                                                                               | Action Items                                                                         |
| --------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 1. Meeting Start & Setup                      | Participants confirmed audio and screen sharing. Pedro Lucas shared his screen.                                                          | N/A                                                                                  |
| 2. Developer Advocate Check-in                | Bernard Sibanda provided an update on the developer experience working group's activities, including weekly sessions and survey results. | Terence McCutcheon to privately share the survey results link.                       |
| 3. Survey Results Discussion                  | In-depth discussion of the developer experience survey, focusing on language barriers, developer motivation, and community engagement.   | Committee members to review the survey results and provide feedback.                 |
| 4. India Developer Summit Report              | Udai Solanki reported on the successful Cardano India Developer Summit.                                                                  | Udai Solanki to create a blog post summarizing the event.                            |
| 5. Blog Post Collaboration                    | Discussion about publishing the summit report on Cardano Cube.                                                                           | Robin BÃ¶ning to collaborate with Udai Solanki on the blog post.                      |
| 6. Strategy Rewrite Discussion                | Chris Taylor introduced the strategy rewrite discussion, sharing relevant documents.                                                     | Committee members to review the documents and prepare for future discussions.        |
| 7. Rewards Recognition Program                | Discussion on establishing a rewards recognition program for open source contributors.                                                   | Pedro Lucas to create a HackMD file for collaborative note-taking.                   |
| 8. Developer Advocate Program Work Session    | Terence McCutcheon proposed a work session to further discuss the developer advocate program.                                            | Schedule a work session for Wednesday, April 9th, at 5 PM UTC.                       |
| 9. Committee Stipends Update                  | Pedro Lucas provided an update on the committee stipends from the Intersect Steering Committee.                                          | N/A                                                                                  |
| 10. Committee Elections Discussion            | Discussion on committee members' intentions to reapply for their seats.                                                                  | Pedro Lucas to follow up with committee members regarding their reapplication plans. |
| 11. Open Source Project Podcast Participation | Chris Taylor requested a technical representative from the OSC to participate in a podcast.                                              | Coordinate with OSC members to find a suitable representative.                       |
| 12. Paid Open Source Model Framework          | Chris Taylor shared a draft framework for the paid open source model.                                                                    | Committee members to review and provide feedback on the framework.                   |
| 13. Commercialization Working Group Call      | Pedro Lucas reminded members about the upcoming Commercialization Working Group call.                                                    | N/A                                                                                  |
| 14. Meeting Timezone Discussion               | Discussion about timezone challenges and potential solutions for meeting times.                                                          | Pedro Lucas to follow up with Moritz Angermann to discuss timezone solutions.        |
| 15. Meeting Adjournment                       | Meeting concluded.                                                                                                                       | N/A                                                                                  |
