# ðŸ¤­ (05/15/2025) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name                     | Attendance | Role        | Voting Seat (Y/N) |
| ------------------------ | ---------- | ----------- | ----------------- |
| P. Lucas                 | Yes        | Chair       | Y                 |
| Adam Dean                | Yes        | Vice Chair  | Y                 |
| Terence â€˜Texâ€™ McCutcheon | Yes        | Secretary   | N                 |
| Christian Taylor         | Yes        | SME         | N                 |
| Arnaud Bailly            | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Elaine Cardenas          | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Georg Link               | No         | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Jonathan Kelly           | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Niels MÃ¼ndler            | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Sebastian Pabon          | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Philip DiSarro           | No         | Member/Seat | Y                 |

Community/Other Attendees

* Alex Seregin
* Jordan Hill
* Udai Solanki

**Recording:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/05/15 - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/11XF9-i4Vzt4QLNDFKaquXTwvg2sJKHZ_/view?usp=sharing)

**Transcript:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/05/15 - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nrP_ferHezKGJ8IBfMSymy960yAr5ixzDPGcw8NHPys/edit?usp=sharing)

**Chat Transcript:** [Open Source Committee Meeting â€“ 2025/05/15 â€“ Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-0QPwWNqtlMMw3DbCSs18gnczDNiFQpx/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

**Christian:** Head of Open Source Office, Intersect, OS SME

**Tex:** Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary

**Adam:** OSC, TSC Intersect, CIP Editors, DripDropz, LLC

**Arnaud:** newly elected OSC, CF, Hydra/Mithril/Peras/Leios/stuff

**Elaine:** newly elected OSC, Aira corporation CTO

**Georg:** Bitergia

**Johnny:** Non-Custodial Co-Management SysOps Engineer (Tech Janitor) for 3 Mainnet Cardano SPO Clients. Keystone Ambassador. Voting Seat Member on Technical Steering Committee and Open Source Committee.

**Lucas:** OSC Chair, 45B.io(SMB onboarding)

**Niels:** tbd

**Sebastian:** OSC, Gimbalabs, contributor, Andamio co-founder.

**Philip:** tbd

## Agenda 5.15.25

* Quick round of introductions&#x20;
* Any questions from the onboarding
* OS State of the Union (Christian)
* Re-introduce Intersect Open Source Strategy - Notes doc as WIP
* Old Business reorg. / Orientation (e.g. Misc WIP: DevAdv, ...)

## Decisions/Actions

Decisions:

* The current meeting time and day work for the attendees and do not need to be changed for the next meeting. (Implicit decision based on thumbs-up response).

Action Items:

* Attendees who have not already done so are asked to provide their title and declare any potential conflicts of interest in the chat for future meetings.
* Outgoing members are encouraged to assist with updates and transition for new members over the next couple of weeks.
* Tex is to get the meeting agenda into ClickUp.
* Pedro Lucas will share his meeting notes and relevant links on Discord.
* New members who are not yet on the internal Discord channel are asked to provide their Discord handle to Tex or Pedro Lucas to be added.
* Pedro Lucas volunteered to be a point of contact for onboarding questions and link sharing on Discord.
* Christian Taylor's presentation recording and slides are to be shared for members to review.
* Discussion on leveraging the Cardano network for open source (e.g., incentivization models) is open, and Christian Taylor offered to connect with Arnaud Bailly on this.
* Pedro Lucas and Adam Dean will align and try to involve more people in an initiative to coordinate Cardano governance tools.
* The idea of encouraging the use of more open-source tooling within the ecosystem was added to the committee's radar.
* Pedro Lucas offered to invite a contact who attended FOSDEM to share their experience regarding engagement with other open source ecosystems. Discussion can continue on the public open source channel on Discord.
* Members are encouraged to review the Gitbook documentation related to the strategy.
* Reframing and reorganizing the strategy document in the Gitbook for future discussion.
* A link to the "Open Source Cowboys" podcast episode discussing the strategy is to be shared for additional context.
* Give thought to candidates for the Vice Chair role from the new cohort.
* Discussion on the preferred leadership structure (Chair + Vice Chair vs. Co-Chairs) for the next term is to continue. A decision on the Vice Chair is aimed for a future meeting, ideally in four weeks.
* Members needing access to Discord or other resources are asked to contact Tex via Discord or email.
* Ensure all new members are connected on the Intersect Discord server.
* Follow up with missing members regarding meeting attendance and access to information.

| Topic                                                         | Discussion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Action Items                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| ------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Welcome and Introductions                                     | The meeting began with greetings and brief self-introductions from attendees, including both existing and newly elected Open Source Committee (OSC) members. Pedro Lucas (Chair) welcomed everyone and noted the transition of members.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Participants were asked to provide their title and declare any potential conflicts of interest in the chat for future meetings to streamline introductions.                                                                                                                                                                          |
| September Election Cycle & Member Transition                  | Terence McCutcheon (Tex) announced the termination of the six-month term for members elected in September and welcomed the new members from the recent election. He highlighted the fairness of the election process.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Outgoing members were encouraged to assist with updates and transition for new members over the next couple of weeks.                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| Meeting Agenda & ClickUp                                      | The planned agenda in ClickUp was not immediately available. Pedro Lucas shared his notes as a temporary agenda.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Tex was to get the agenda into ClickUp. Pedro Lucas offered to share his notes and relevant links on Discord.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Onboarding New Members                                        | Discussion around ensuring new members are fully onboarded. Pedro Lucas mentioned sharing an onboarding presentation, a recording of a previous call, and relevant documents on Discord. Some members noted not being added to the internal Discord channel.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | New members who are not yet on the internal Discord channel were asked to provide their Discord handle to Tex or Pedro Lucas to be added. Pedro Lucas volunteered to be a point of contact for onboarding questions and link sharing.                                                                                                |
| State of the Open Source Office (OSO) & 2024/2025 Update      | Christian Taylor provided a detailed and rapid update on the status of various OSO initiatives and artifacts, referencing a presentation deck. He covered the reasons for starting the OSO, the handover of Core Cardano repositories, key community concerns, the three base pillars of the strategy (technical sustainability, governance/decision-making, community engagement), and the status of numerous programs, policies, and partnerships (drafted, in implementation/pilot, or up and running). He highlighted the impact of the budget process on progress. Key areas covered included the open source strategy goals, project life cycle framework, project acceptance criteria, governance and security policies, developer advocate program, project support services, contribution ladder, maintainer documentation/process, commercialization working group, Beturgia reporting, strategic partnerships (Burg, To-Do Group, Linux Foundation/Hyperledger), possum white paper, bug bounty, maintainer retainer, accreditation program, security council, tooling working group, and SWOT analysis. He also outlined OSO goals for 2025, including expanding OSO governance, the accreditation program, open source education/training, a rewards/recognition system, advanced metrics, incubation process maturity, security/compliance, and documentation standards. He presented a diagram illustrating Intersect's open source sphere of influence and its sustainable model vision. | Recording and slides of Christian's presentation to be shared for members to review at their pace. Floor was opened for questions on the dense material.                                                                                                                                                                             |
| Leveraging the Cardano Network for Open Source                | Arnaud Bailly raised the idea of using the Cardano network itself to support the open source ecosystem, potentially through incentivization models, tracking bounties, or accessing libraries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Christian Taylor expressed openness to ideas in this area as groundwork is being laid for incentivization structures. Christian offered to connect with Arnaud on this topic.                                                                                                                                                        |
| Governance Tools Coordination (GovTool)                       | Discussion around the status of GovTool and the need for better coordination among various governance tools being developed in the ecosystem. It was noted that the GovTool team might be understaffed and struggling to integrate community feedback and articulate with other tools.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Pedro Lucas and Adam Dean took an action to align and try to involve more people in an initiative to coordinate Cardano governance tools.                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Open Source Tooling & Ecosystem Preference                    | A brief discussion occurred regarding the use of open-source tools within the ecosystem (e.g., GitLab vs. GitHub, Matrix vs. Discord) and encouraging the use of more open-source options.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | This was added to the committee's radar as something to potentially encourage.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Engagement with Other Open Source Ecosystems (FOSDEM Example) | Arnaud Bailly inquired about the committee's experience interacting with other open-source ecosystems and reaction to events like FOSDEM. Sebastian Pabon highlighted the value of coordinating efforts with external actors for spreading awareness and building partnerships.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Pedro Lucas offered to invite a contact who attended FOSDEM to share their experience. Christian Taylor mentioned Jurg from Burg attends many conferences and could be a good contact for this. Discussion could continue on the public open source channel on Discord.                                                              |
| Review of Gitbook Documentation (Strategy)                    | Tex and Pedro Lucas guided members to the Gitbook documentation, specifically the strategy section under the Open Source Office. It was noted that this document needs updating to reflect achieved goals from 2024 and reframe timelines for future items.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Members were encouraged to review the Gitbook documentation related to the strategy. A Google Doc exists for high-level observations on the public documentation. Considerations for reframing and reorganizing the strategy document for future discussion. A link to a related YouTube podcast was offered for additional context. |
| Vice Chair Position                                           | Tex announced that the committee will be looking for a Vice Chair, ideally from the new cohort, to learn the leadership role and ensure continuity when the current chair's term ends in October. The expectation is that the Vice Chair would likely take on the Chair role subsequently.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Give thought to candidates for the Vice Chair role. Decision aimed for a future meeting (ideally in four weeks) to allow new members to settle in and demonstrate engagement.                                                                                                                                                        |
| Committee Dynamics and Leadership                             | Pedro Lucas suggested electing a co-chair to work alongside him rather than directly replacing the current Vice Chair role immediately, allowing for a smoother transition and shared responsibility. This is subject to group agreement.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Discussion on the preferred leadership structure (Chair + Vice Chair vs. Co-Chairs) for the next term to continue.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| Accessing Resources and Discord                               | Tex reiterated the importance of joining the Intersect Discord server to access committee resources and stay updated. He provided his Discord handle for assistance.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Members needing access to Discord or other resources were asked to contact Tex via Discord or email if they hadn't already. Ensure all members are connected on Discord.                                                                                                                                                             |
| Meeting Cadence and Attendance                                | The current meeting time and day were confirmed to work for most attendees. Note was made of a couple of missing members.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Follow up with missing members regarding meeting attendance and access to information.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Closing Remarks                                               | Pedro Lucas thanked everyone for attending and encouraged outgoing members to stay involved in the Cardano ecosystem.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Stay in touch and engaged with the Cardano open source community.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
