# ðŸ¥³ (06/12/2025) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name                     | Attendance | Role        | Voting Seat (Y/N) |
| ------------------------ | ---------- | ----------- | ----------------- |
| P. Lucas                 | Yes        | Chair       | Y                 |
| Adam Dean                | No         | Vice Chair  | Y                 |
| Terence â€˜Texâ€™ McCutcheon | Yes        | Secretary   | N                 |
| Christian Taylor         | Yes        | SME         | N                 |
| Arnaud Bailly            | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Elaine Cardenas          | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Georg Link               | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Jonathan Kelly           | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Niels MÃ¼ndler            | No         | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Sebastian Pabon          | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Philip DiSarro           | No         | Member/Seat | Y                 |

Community/Other Attendees

* Jordan Hill
* Mohammad Abdul Hoque

**Recording:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/06/12 - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1mul9mbZ1dzJriN-OnI5pls_aSAUX0l48/view?usp=sharing)

**Transcript:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/06/12 07:51 CDT - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Px_M7nae8Y3oEIQ4YiKqfe85qy1sYbmkTzS21f9f9Hg/edit?usp=sharing)

**Chat Transcript:** [Open Source Committee Meeting â€“ 2025/06/12 07:56 â€“ Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1jF9Ytnk_Opfzt2LRalqjHjtpFuRWkjCZ/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

**Christian:** Head of Open Source Office, Intersect, OS SME

**Tex:** Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary

**Adam:** OSC, TSC Intersect, CIP Editors, DripDropz, LLC

**Arnaud:** OSC Member, CF

**Elaine:** newly elected OSC, Aira corporation CTO

**Georg:** Bitergia

**Johnny:** Non-Custodial Co-Management SysOps Engineer (Tech Janitor) for 3 Mainnet Cardano SPO Clients. Keystone Ambassador. Voting Seat Member on Technical Steering Committee and Open Source Committee.

**Lucas:** OSC Chair, 45B.io(SMB onboarding)

**Niels:** tbd

**Sebastian:** OSC, Gimbalabs, contributor, Andamio co-founder.

**Philip:** tbd&#x20;

## Agenda 6.12.25

* Budget Split Review
* Developer Advocate Application
* DAP Slides
* Tooling WG Formation
* Vote for new Vice Chair
* Maintainer Retainer Updates
* Summer of Code (Skipped)
* Agree upon Project/Task Management Tool
* Committee Member Check In

## Decisions/Actions

* Terence M will submit the budget split proposal, clearly stating the OSC's preference for the entire budget upfront.
* The application form for the Developer Advocate Program will be released on Monday, June 16, 2025.
* Elaine C and Arnaud B will provide feedback on the updated slides and content creation expectations for the Developer Advocate Program.
* Christian T will set up communication channels (Discord thread/GitHub) for the tooling working group and share the draft charter on Gitbook soon.
* Pedro L will initiate a poll in Discord for Vice Chair nominations, linking to the meeting minutes.
* All committee members will collaborate on the maintainer retainer application questions document.
* Deeper discussion on the Andamio platform for the maintainer retainer program will be held in a future meeting.
* Committee members will decide on a preferred task management tool (ClickUp or GitHub project boards) in upcoming meetings. Pedro L will continue using Miro for overview and connections.
* Terence M will schedule Robin for a future meeting to discuss the Summer of Code.
* Pedro L will continue utilizing the Miro board for check-ins and progress tracking.

| Topic                                           | Discussion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Action Items                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ----------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Budget Split Proposal                           | Terence M presented a proposal to split the budget into two withdrawals (2025 and 2026) due to external requests, although an initial plan for a single withdrawal existed. Christian T clarified that the overall budget figure was correct, but a clerical error in a PDF caused a misallocation of $150,000 for project support services, offset by a reduction in events. The total amount remains the same, and the split is a contingency in case the OSC requests it. Jonathan K clarified that the higher 2025 allocation is intentional to prioritize spending in the current year, and he had no objection to the split as long as it didn't impact the OSC's ability to fulfill payments. | Terence M to submit the budget split proposal, clearly stating the OSC's preference for the entire budget upfront.                                                                    |
| Developer Advocate Program Application          | Terence M reviewed the updated developer advocate application form, including required and optional fields (LinkedIn, X handle optional for now). New questions related to content creation and contributions to other open-source projects were added. The payment structure was updated to $4,480 per month for 9 months, paid bi-weekly, reflecting an increase in pay and a shift from a 12-month to a 9-month cycle.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Application form to be released on Monday, June 16, 2025.                                                                                                                             |
| Developer Advocate Program Goals & Expectations | Terence M presented the updated 7-slide program overview. Key expectations include participation in/leading the Developer Experience working group, onboarding new developers, community engagement, and providing actionable feedback. Goals include strategic collaborations, diversity and inclusion, ecosystem expansion, fostering innovation, building a global community, and maturing the developer experience repo. Discussion arose regarding explicit mention of content creation in goals versus optional questions in the application.                                                                                                                                                  | Elaine C and Arnaud B to provide feedback on the updated slides and content creation expectations.                                                                                    |
| Tooling Working Group Launch                    | Christian T discussed the launch of the tooling working group, aiming to be strategic by conducting community surveys before opening applications. Arnaud B volunteered to be part of the working group. Discussion about using Discord threads or GitHub for communication and progress tracking. Christian T noted a draft charter will be available on the Gitbook soon.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Christian T to set up communication channels (Discord thread/GitHub) for the tooling working group. Christian T to share the draft charter on Gitbook soon.                           |
| Vice Chair Selection                            | Pedro L clarified the Vice Chair role, noting that the selected individual would transition to Chair in October, with a new Vice Chair being elected from the new cohort. Arnaud B expressed interest but had concerns about time commitments due to existing responsibilities. Elaine C also expressed interest, acknowledging Arnaud's greater leadership experience. Jonathan K suggested a poll in Discord for nominations to allow individuals to volunteer. Pedro L emphasized that interested individuals not present at the meeting should review the discussion to understand the responsibilities.                                                                                         | Pedro L to initiate a poll in Discord for Vice Chair nominations, linking to the meeting minutes.                                                                                     |
| Maintainer Retainer Program Updates             | Jonathan K presented 12 draft questions for the maintainer retainer program application, derived from the existing 30-day trial program document. The questions aim to assess experience and fit for the program. Discussion ensued about whether the questions were too verbose or exacting, and the need for a scoring system versus a more subjective assessment. Georg L believed the program is for existing proven community members. Christian T suggested maintainership criteria may vary by project.                                                                                                                                                                                       | All committee members to collaborate on the maintainer retainer application questions document.                                                                                       |
| Andamio Platform for Maintainer Retainer        | Terence M briefly raised the possibility of using the Andamio platform for the maintainer retainer program to test/educate maintainers and manage compensation. He emphasized that this is an option for consideration.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Deeper discussion on the Andamio platform to be held in a future meeting.                                                                                                             |
| OSC Workflow & Task Management                  | Pedro L presented the current Miro board for tracking budget topics and team collaboration. Discussion about the best tool for task management, with options including Miro, ClickUp, and GitHub project boards. Concerns raised about tool proliferation and friction. Consensus leaned towards explicit task assignment and ownership regardless of the tool. Elaine C expressed preference for explicit ticket ownership.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Committee members to decide on a preferred task management tool (ClickUp or GitHub project boards) in upcoming meetings. Pedro L to continue using Miro for overview and connections. |
| Summer of Code Update                           | This topic was postponed due to time constraints and the need to include Robin in a future meeting for a more comprehensive discussion.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Terence M to schedule Robin for a future meeting to discuss the Summer of Code.                                                                                                       |
| Check-in Process                                | Pedro L demonstrated the use of the Miro board for check-ins, allowing members to track their involvement and progress on various budget items and initiatives. The board helps visualize who is working on what, serving as a connection point for each item.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Pedro L to continue utilizing the Miro board for check-ins and progress tracking.                                                                                                     |
