# ðŸ˜‹ (06/26/2025) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name                     | Attendance | Role        | Voting Seat (Y/N) |
| ------------------------ | ---------- | ----------- | ----------------- |
| P. Lucas                 | Yes        | Chair       | Y                 |
| Adam Dean                | Yes        | Vice Chair  | Y                 |
| Terence â€˜Texâ€™ McCutcheon | Yes        | Secretary   | N                 |
| Christian Taylor         | Yes        | SME         | N                 |
| Arnaud Bailly            | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Elaine Cardenas          | No         | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Georg Link               | No         | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Jonathan Kelly           | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Niels MÃ¼ndler            | No         | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Sebastian Pabon          | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Philip DiSarro           | No         | Member/Seat | Y                 |

Community/Other Attendees

* Jordan Hill

**Recording:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/06/26 - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Po3pPGQj_uGIB53IKMb0p4UJEzKn78y8/view?usp=sharing)

**Transcript:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/06/26 - Notes/Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fWAR2O1ytwPl-6rQga1s8gm4-ecnIB0z3HuCF3clRxs/edit?usp=sharing)

**Chat Transcript:** [Open Source Committee Meeting â€“ 2025/06/26 â€“ Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1nj9M8ydLhOaSbrIguF_azn4T-yQZd7Nu/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

**Christian:** Head of Open Source Office, Intersect, OS SME\
**Tex:** Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary\
**Adam:** OSC, TSC Intersect, CIP Editors, DripDropz, LLC\
**Arnaud:** OSC Member, CF\
**Elaine:** newly elected OSC, Aira corporation CTO\
**Georg:** Bitergia\
**Johnny:** Non-Custodial Co-Management SysOps Engineer (Tech Janitor) for 3 Mainnet Cardano SPO Clients. Keystone Ambassador. Voting Seat Member on Technical Steering Committee and Open Source Committee.\
**Lucas:** OSC Chair, 45B.io(SMB onboarding)\
**Niels:** tbd\
**Sebastian:** OSC, Gimbalabs, contributor, Andamio co-founder.\
**Philip:** tbd&#x20;

## Agenda 6.26.25

* Triage projects between OSC<>TSC for budget oversight
* Project Lifecycle maturity grading
* Update from Georg(Christian) on POSM
* Follow up on OSC rules of funding
* Summer of code, update
* Operations of OSC long term
* Bug bounty tooling
* Open Forum

## Decisions/Actions

Decisions:

* **Oversight of Approved Proposals:** The OSC will focus on "delivery assurance" rather than full code audits, and will help select third-party providers for technical reviews.
* **Summer of Code Program:** The program will be a shorter, crash-course style (3-7 days) with on-site benefits, likely with two versions (Africa/APAC and US/UK based).

Actions:

* Christian:
  * Set up the next cadence for the tooling funding rules discussion.
  * Follow up with Tex regarding Arnaud's request for conference funding/support
  * Continue setting up the Intersect-led landscape tool for internal use
* All Members:
  * Review the Miro board for pending actions and contribute by documenting or illustrating work.
  * Review the linked document on the Miro board to help triage proposals as "core" or "not core" and contribute views on oversight.
  * Review the POSSUM document and provide feedback on the proposed structure (one document vs. multiple).
  * Review the tooling working group charter and provide feedback on the proposed rules and criteria for funding eligibility.
  * Review the education resources document and contribute additional resources as applicable.
* Arnaud:
  * Gather more information on the future plans for the developer portal from the Cardano Foundation.
* Terence McCutcheon:
  * To be included in any meetings with Bora or others regarding the developer portal.
  * Email members with availability for early July interviews with developer advocates.
  * Connect with Fabian from the Cardano Foundation to understand why their GOC application was not accepted, to learn from past experiences.
  * Continue building the "CSOC" (Cardano Summer of Code) program after the Developer Advocate Program is established.
* OSC (as a committee):
  * Decide on the range of bug bounty payouts.

\
<br>

| Topic                                                     | Discussion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Action Items                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| --------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Attendee Check-in & Quorum                                | Lucas noted the current attendees and questioned if quorum was met. Christian stated a simple majority (5 voting members) is needed for quorum, and with 4 present, one more is required. Elaine, Phillip, and Neils were absent. Jordan joined late, but did not help meet quorum.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Christian to ping Elaine regarding her attendance.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Meeting Structure & Miro Board Usage                      | Lucas discussed his efforts to track attendance and personal check-ins on tasks. He also highlighted the Miro board as a shared workspace for tracking progress, pending actions, and budget line items.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | All members to review the Miro board for pending actions (e.g., red overdue items) and to contribute by documenting or illustrating work.                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Oversight of Approved Proposals (TSC/OSC Alignment)       | The budget committee requested the TSC to align with the OSC on oversight of approved proposals, specifically regarding separating oversight responsibilities. Discussion revolved around defining "oversight" â€“ from administrative payment processing to in-depth code review. Pedro Lucas noted the budget task force suggests "delivery assurance" rather than full code audits, potentially utilizing third-party technical reviewers.                                                                                   | All members to review the linked document on the Miro board to help triage proposals as "core" or "not core" and contribute views on oversight.                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Defining Oversight & Technical Audits                     | Adam and Arnaud questioned the purpose of OSC oversight if it's merely "rubber stamping" and lacks veto power for non-compliant deliveries, highlighting reputational risk without actual verification. It was clarified that the OSC would help choose third-party delivery assurance/audit providers and define good practices, but not perform technical reviews themselves.                                                                                                                                               | Continue discussion on the exact scope and level of "delivery assurance" the OSC will be involved in.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| Developer Portal & Project Maturity Data Exposure         | Discussion about the developers.org webpage and the potential to link project maturity information from the OSC's grading system. Arnaud Bailly suggested having the data from the maturity grading exposed for broader use by third-party tools like Electric Capital and for the Cardano developer portal.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Arnaud to gather more information on the future plans for the dev portal from the Cardano Foundation. Tex to be included in any meetings with Bora or others regarding the dev portal. Christian to continue setting up the Intersect-led landscape tool for internal use and explore ways to broadcast its data to other platforms.          |
| POSSUM Program Update (Maintainer Retainer & Code for Us) | Christian provided an update on the POSM (Paid Open Source Software Unified Maintainer) program document. The main discussion point was whether to finalize the current comprehensive document or separate it into distinct documents for governance, maintainer retainer, and "Code for Us" before publishing to the GitBook page.                                                                                                                                                                                           | All members to review the POSSUM document (link to be provided/confirmed) and provide feedback on the proposed structure (one document vs. multiple).                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| Tooling Funding Rules                                     | Adam reported on the first tooling working group meeting, discussing rules and eligibility for the 4 million ADA tooling fund. The aim is to support critical and necessary tooling, ensuring valuable developers remain in the ecosystem, rather than solely enriching existing, well-funded projects.                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | All members to review the tooling working group charter (link to be provided/confirmed) and provide feedback on the proposed rules and criteria for funding eligibility. Christian to set up the next cadence for this discussion.                                                                                                            |
| Summer of Code Program                                    | Tex shared exciting news about connecting with Stephanie Taylor from Google's Summer of Code program. She offered guidance and review for setting up a similar program (tentatively called "CSOC" for Cardano Summer of Code). Robin has also confirmed ownership of this workstream. Discussion included the duration (aiming for a crash course of 3-7 days instead of months) and location (Africa APAC and US/UK based). Sebastian Pabon suggested collaborating with existing Cardano projects running similar programs. | Tex to email members with availability for early July interviews with developer advocates. Tex to connect with Fabian from the Cardano Foundation to understand why their GSOC application was not accepted, to learn from past experiences. Tex to continue building the "CSOC" program after the Developer Advocate Program is established. |
| Operations & Project Management                           | Lucas emphasized the continued efforts to assign tasks and follow up on actions asynchronously and at the beginning of calls. He also mentioned tracking attendance on the GitBook by Tex.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Members to continue utilizing the Miro board for task declaration and tracking.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Member Participation & Absence                            | Discussion around the implications of continued member absence and the potential for a "vote of no confidence" process, as well as the ongoing work of the Intersect Governance Working Group on future elections and official processes for member removal due to inactivity.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Intersect Governance Working Group to formalize processes for member absence and potential removal.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| Bug Bounty Tooling                                        | Christian presented two options for a bug bounty program: Jirrobug (open-source from Linux Foundation) or Alumini (used by the CF). The framework is largely finalized, but the OSC needs to determine the spending range for bounties.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Christian to share links for Jirrobug and Alumini for review. OSC to decide on the range of bug bounty payouts.                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Developer Advocate Interviews                             | Tex requested availability from members to participate in interviews for the Developer Advocate program in early July.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Members to email Tex their availability for Developer Advocate interviews.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Education Resources                                       | Christian shared a document of quick education resources, including functional programming resources from the University of Nottingham. He invited members to contribute additional resources.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | All members to review the education resources document and contribute additional resources as applicable. This resource will be linked to the "Maintainer Retainer" and "Developer Advocates" sections of the budget.                                                                                                                         |
| Open Source Committee Funding Requests                    | Arnaud inquired about the process for getting funding/support for attending the open-source conference in Amsterdam.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Christian to follow up with Tex regarding Arnaud's request for conference funding/support. Christian will also gather more information on the process for funding such requests for future reference.                                                                                                                                         |

