# (07/10/2025) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name                     | Attendance | Role        | Voting Seat (Y/N) |
| ------------------------ | ---------- | ----------- | ----------------- |
| P. Lucas                 | Yes        | Chair       | Y                 |
| Adam Dean                | No         | Vice Chair  | Y                 |
| Terence ‘Tex’ McCutcheon | Yes        | Secretary   | N                 |
| Christian Taylor         | Yes        | SME         | N                 |
| Arnaud Bailly            | No         | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Elaine Cardenas          | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Georg Link               | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Jonathan Kelly           | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Niels Mündler            | No         | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Sebastian Pabon          | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Philip DiSarro           | No         | Member/Seat | Y                 |

Community/Other Attendees

* Emmanuel Titi
* Minh Bui

**Recording:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/07/10 - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/16z7je0TZyUCnqKQMDmftVviaq7Ho-2BQ/view?usp=sharing)

**Transcript:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/07/10 - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DeY637C8piq6M7gb07zINBiS8BVARhfn0M0lG_RWZQo/edit?usp=sharing)

**Chat Transcript:** [Open Source Committee Meeting – 2025/07/10 – Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1rLDUkDYNutInAlWkjatIYnI3Bv-O6drm/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

**Christian:** Head of Open Source Office, Intersect, OS SME

**Tex:** Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary

**Adam:** OSC, TSC Intersect, CIP Editors, DripDropz, LLC

**Arnaud:** OSC Member, CF

**Elaine**: newly elected OSC, Aira corporation CTO

**Georg:** Bitergia

**Johnny:** Non-Custodial Co-Management SysOps Engineer (Tech Janitor) for 3 Mainnet Cardano SPO Clients. Keystone Ambassador. Voting Seat Member on Technical Steering Committee and Open Source Committee.

**Lucas:** OSC Chair, 45B.io(SMB onboarding)

**Niels:** newly elected OSC, OpShin Founder

**Sebastian:** OSC, Gimbalabs, contributor, Andamio co-founder.

**Philip:** tbd

## Agenda 7.10.25

* Check-ins
* Dev Adv Program Round 2
  * Review Applicants
  * Verify strategy for Round 2 promotion
* POSM Milestone Tracker
  * Program Setup
  * Budget Allocations
* Assignment of Deliverables
* Maintainer Retainer Program Draft questions
* CHAOSScon Presentation (apprised)
* Events Discussion, OS Summit
* Comms Callout - Intersect
* AOB/Open Forum

## Decisions/Actions

#### Developer Advocate Program

* **Decision:** The first round of Developer Advocate Program applications will be scrapped.
* **Decision:** All previous applicants, including those who applied past the original deadline, will be asked to reapply for the program.
* **Action:** Terence will send an email to all Round 1 applicants to inform them of the reapplication requirement.
* **Decision:** Development history for applicants will be verified using Bitergia and GitHub, with a strong emphasis on Bitergia for tracking Cardano contributions.
* **Action:** Terence and Elaine will discuss the developer advocate program promotion further after the meeting.
* **Action:** Elaine will create a Google Doc to list individuals who can help promote the developer advocate program.
* **Action:** Johnny will reach out to identified well-known educational figures to assist with promotion.
* **Action:** Christian will confirm with Tim regarding the LinkedIn job posting for developer advocates.

#### Paid Open Source Model Milestone Tracker

* **Decision:** A new approach to milestones will be implemented, where each program will have individual milestones to prevent delays in one program from affecting others.
* **Action:** Christian and Terence will draft individual milestones for each program and present them for feedback.
* **Action:** Christian and Lucas will work on an easy-to-translate option for program status, potentially by updating the Miro board.
* **Action:** All members are encouraged to actively engage in async work by updating communications channels.

#### Program Assignments and Contributions

* **Action:** All members are encouraged to identify programs of interest and add their names (in all caps) to the relevant tasks to indicate their willingness to contribute.
* **Action:** Johnny will get involved in the incident monitoring and security program.
* **Action:** Christian and Terence will work out the document split for the POSM framework document for approval.
* **Action:** Georg will share the link to the CHAOSScon presentation.
* **Action:** Pedro will continue to provide support for European open-source events.
* **Action:** Christian will send more information on the Open Source Summit in Japan (December) to Elaine.
* **Action:** Christian will reach out to Oscar Hong regarding scheduling a side event in South Korea.
* **Action:** Pedro and Terence will work to define a "mini job board" for tasks where non-seated individuals, like Emmanuel, can contribute.
* **Action:** Emmanuel will drop a message in the OSC Discord chat to follow up on his volunteering interest.

| Topic                                    | Discussion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| ---------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Podcast Promotion                        | Terence promoted the "Chaos" podcast. Georg and Johnny were guests on a previous recording.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | The podcast is available on various platforms by searching "Chaos with CHAOSS".                                                                                                                                             |
| Attendance & Absences                    | Lucas noted Elaine would chair due to his multitasking. Adam is unassigned. Sebastian and Philip confirmed non-attendance. Niels gave apologies, and Pedro wondered if Niels was aligning with the committee's work.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Niels seems to be taking an async approach to OAC. Christian having a conversation about this with Niels.                                                                                                                   |
| Maintainer Trial Program Document        | Elaine reviewed Johnny's draft questions for the maintainer trial program document, suggesting some questions be folded or made more general. Elaine highlighted the importance of knowing time/commitment availability of candidates.                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Elaine gave additional feedback on the document. She sent messages in Discord about candidates.                                                                                                                             |
| Developer Advocates Applications         | Sebastian reviewed applications and promoted developer advocate documentation. Terence expressed surprise at multiple posts coming out this week regarding applications.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Sebastian's post only invited reading the documentation, without mentioning dates or deadlines.                                                                                                                             |
| Round 2 Developer Advocate Program       | Terence clarified that Round 1 applications are being scrapped, and all previous applicants (including those past the original deadline) will be asked to reapply. Development history will be verified using Burga and GitHub, with a heavy emphasis on Burga for Cardano contributions. Elaine agreed that Round 1 applicants should reapply, particularly to gather more information on language, motivations, and communication skills.                     | There was no dissent from Johnny on scrapping Round 1. Elaine suggested further discussion with Terence after the meeting.                                                                                                  |
| Promotion for Developer Advocate Program | Elaine suggested creating a list of individuals beyond OSC members to promote the program. Johnny mentioned reaching out to well-known educational figures like Rick and Dave.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Elaine suggested a Google Doc for this list.                                                                                                                                                                                |
| LinkedIn Job Posting                     | Christian confirmed that posting a job description for developer advocates on LinkedIn is likely not out of scope but needs to be coordinated with Tim, the communications manager.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Christian needs to clarify this with Tim to avoid contractual issues.                                                                                                                                                       |
| Paid Open Source Model Milestone Tracker | Christian explained a new approach to milestones, where each program will have individual milestones to prevent one program's delays from affecting others. This will also allow for upfront costs and regular, smaller milestone reviews. Terence presented a calendar showing task progress and categories.                                                                                                                                                   | Christian and Terence will draft individual milestones. The calendar will use orange for in-progress, green for completed, and black for unassigned.                                                                        |
| Status of Programs for Oversight         | Georg requested a current status of each program within the paid open source model for better oversight.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Christian noted that current status is mainly on the Miro board but needs an easier-to-translate option.                                                                                                                    |
| Program Assignment                       | Terence encouraged committee members to volunteer for specific programs where they want to contribute, learn, or advocate. Johnny expressed interest in the incident monitoring and security program, citing past experience in IT and tracking applications. Georg expressed interest in several programs, including the code for us retainer and contribution ladder.                                                                                         | There will be a lot of sharing and co-work, but specific assignments can be made. This can shuffle experience among members.                                                                                                |
| POSM Framework Document                  | Christian is working on breaking down the 30-page Possom framework document into three separate, more accessible documents (one on governance and one for each program). He requested feedback on whether to approve the whole document first or after separation.                                                                                                                                                                                              | The document needs to be separated regardless. Johnny agreed to approve after the breakout.                                                                                                                                 |
| Chaos Con Presentation                   | Georg presented on the Paid Open Source Model at CHAOSSCon, covering the background of Cardano and Intersect, ecosystem analysis, and anticipated metrics. The full talk, which is 30+ minutes longer than the stage presentation, is available on LinkedIn and YouTube.                                                                                                                                                                                        | Georg will share the link to the presentation. Metrics are anticipated around commits, issues, pull requests, and project-specific views, among others.                                                                     |
| Upcoming Events & Travel                 | Elaine plans to speak at an event in Tokyo on the paid open source model and governance. Open Source Summit in Amsterdam is unlikely for Arnaud and Lucas due to scheduling. Lucas is open to attending other European open-source events. Christian shared information on the Open Source Summit in South Korea (Nov 4-5) and Japan (December), and an analytics virtual conference. Christian hopes Oscar Hong can help schedule a side event in South Korea. | Lucas’ offer to cover video for European events still stands. Elaine plans to attend the Japan and South Korea summits. Christian will send more info on the Japan event.                                                   |
| Exploring Actionables within Projects    | Lucas suggested finding ways to engage less active committee members and explore opportunities for non-seated individuals, like Emmanuel, to contribute. Emmanuel volunteered to learn the ropes and contribute. Christian noted initial thoughts on reward and recognition programs.                                                                                                                                                                           | Lucas’ goal is to increase committee efficiency. Terence suggested a "mini job board" for tasks with experience as the bounty. Emmanuel will follow up on Discord. Reward and recognition programs are on the 2025 roadmap. |
