# ðŸ˜‹ (07/24/2025) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name                     | Attendance | Role        | Voting Seat (Y/N) |
| ------------------------ | ---------- | ----------- | ----------------- |
| P. Lucas                 | Yes        | Chair       | Y                 |
| Adam Dean                | Yes        | Vice Chair  | Y                 |
| Terence â€˜Texâ€™ McCutcheon | Yes        | Secretary   | N                 |
| Christian Taylor         | No         | SME         | N                 |
| Arnaud Bailly            | No         | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Elaine Cardenas          | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Georg Link               | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Jonathan Kelly           | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Niels MÃ¼ndler            | No         | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Sebastian Pabon          | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Philip DiSarro           | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |

\


Community/Other Attendees

* Emmanuel Titi
* Erick Romero
* Gemma Dakin

\


Recording: [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/07/24 - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1nMcNrPyx0CU87G6h7K8IrUM-858ZMjN0/view?usp=sharing)

\


Transcript: [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/07/24 - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1X-RMXf8CAPPTJXLNAMstbYeV_YQLbyVXMU6jIlqcEEU/edit?usp=sharing)

\


Chat Transcript: [Open Source Committee Meeting â€“ 2025/07/24 â€“ Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1hPgzg9JxrC6na8yIEcyr2dmCzH6qkDlF/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

Christian: Head of Open Source Office, Intersect, OS SME

Tex: Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary

Adam: OSC, TSC Intersect, CIP Editors, DripDropz, LLC

Arnaud: OSC Member, CF

Elaine: newly elected OSC, Aira corporation CTO

Georg: Bitergia

Johnny: Non-Custodial Co-Management SysOps Engineer (Tech Janitor) for 3 Mainnet Cardano SPO Clients. Keystone Ambassador. Voting Seat Member on Technical Steering Committee and Open Source Committee.

Lucas: OSC Chair, 45B.io(SMB onboarding)

Niels: tbd

Sebastian: OSC, Gimbalabs, contributor, Andamio co-founder.

Philip: tbd&#x20;

## Agenda 7.24.25

* Check ins now on Discord
* OSC Budget Milestones Approval&#x20;
*
  * Assignment of deliverables
* Developer Advocate - Program Application updates
* Maintainer Evaluation Process
* Bug bounty doc
* Operations of OSC long term
* Budget Oversight
* Open Forum/AOB
*
  * Anonymous reviews between OS Committee Members
  * List of OS tooling for EGA WG
  * Governance Tooling Initiative

## Decisions/Actions

Decisions:

* Check-ins: Will now be conducted on Discord, in the OSC internal channel and an OSC members thread. Experimentation with Loom for quick video recordings will also occur.
* Milestone Approval: Approved via "lazy consensus" rather than a formal vote.
* Milestone Dates: Milestone delivery dates will be set to the 14th of the month to optimize payment cycles (allowing for a 5-day buffer and payment by the 15th of the following month).
* Oversight Committee Role: The Open Source Committee (OSC) is no longer involved in overseeing funded proposals, as Intersect has established a separate oversight committee.

Actions:

* Terence: Update the milestone document to reflect the new delivery dates (14th of the month).
* Adam: Align with Gemma asynchronously regarding his concerns about payment processes.
* Committee Members:
*
  * Review the budget and budget lines, and familiarize themselves with initiatives.
  * Self-assign to at least one budget line item from the "possum" (likely a reference to the program/project document).
  * Engage more in general, with a request for 20+ hours per month participation.
  * Look into the Miro board and assign themselves to tasks (if possible, considering the limitation of one person per task, use sticky notes as a workaround).
  * Promote the Developer Advocates program by retweeting and reposting links on LinkedIn and X, and reaching out to relevant organizations/Discords.
  * Review the Maintainer Evaluation Process document, with Jonathan incorporating feedback and seeking consensus.
  * Review the Bug Bounty document (though it was acknowledged it might be outdated).
* Lucas:
*
  * Continue tracking attendance and follow up on actions.
  * Create more focused work sessions for specific initiatives.
  * Record a Loom or async video message to introduce committee members to working more asynchronously.
  * Follow up on the discussions from the meeting.
* Johnny: Integrate feedback into the Maintainer Evaluation Process document and seek committee consensus on changes.

\
\


| Topic                                       | Discussion                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| ------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Welcome and Attendance                      | Pedro welcomed everyone and noted a slight delay for Eric to join.                                                                                                                                                    | Eric joined shortly after.                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Developer Advocate Application (Eric)       | Pedro mentioned Eric's interest in the Developer Advocate role and his application.                                                                                                                                   | Jonathan thanked Eric for applying and noted a packed agenda.                                                                                                                                   |
| Check-ins on Discord                        | Pedro announced that check-ins would now be on Discord, within the OSC internal channel and an OSC members thread. He also mentioned experimenting with Loom for video quick recordings.                              | This aims to create a log of activities and budget line items.                                                                                                                                  |
| Milestone Approval and Document Review      | Pedro highlighted the urgent need to approve milestones, as "Tex" (Terence) has been pressing for it. Terence provided an update on the acceptance criteria, awaiting final review from Intersect's procurement team. | Jonathan expressed satisfaction with the detailed milestones and deliverables.                                                                                                                  |
| Bureaucracy Concerns and Voting             | Georg raised concerns about potential bureaucracy and overhead in running programs. Pedro inquired if a formal vote was needed for milestone approval.                                                                | Terence suggested "lazy consensus" due to his role as the OSC secretary and signer.                                                                                                             |
| Reviewing Program Documents                 | Jonathan proposed reviewing each program's milestones and deliverables briefly to ensure everyone's awareness. Pedro agreed to a quick flyover of the document.                                                       | The maintainer retainer program was discussed, emphasizing staged rollouts and verifiable milestones.                                                                                           |
| Achievability of Goals                      | Jonathan asked if the stated goals and dates in the document were achievable. Georg confirmed they were reasonable, focusing on what needs to be created.                                                             | Pedro noted the bandwidth challenge for the committee to review all programs in parallel.                                                                                                       |
| Payment Schedule and Milestones             | Terence explained Intersect's payment schedule (15th and 30th of the month) and the 30-45 day payment window. He asked if milestone delivery dates should be shifted to the 10th to expedite payments.                | Adam questioned the 45-day waiting period on a blockchain. Gemma explained the need for delivery assurance checks and balances.                                                                 |
| Milestone Date Decision                     | After discussion, the consensus was to set milestone delivery dates to the 14th of the month. This allows for a 5-day buffer and ensures payment by the 15th of the following month.                                  | Pedro asked Terence to update the document accordingly. Adam was encouraged to follow up with Gemma via email regarding his concerns.                                                           |
| Assigning Committee Members to Budget Lines | Pedro noted the challenge of assigning OSC members to specific budget lines in the Miro board, as it doesn't support multiple assignees per task. Jonathan suggested self-assigning to tasks on the Miro board.       | Pedro clarified that the Miro board tasks are not directly budget lines. Terence stated tasks will be moved into timelines based on milestones.                                                 |
| Developer Advocates Program Updates         | Pedro encouraged everyone to retweet and repost promotion links for the Developer Advocates program. He also asked for feedback on outreach efforts to organizations.                                                 | Jonathan requested a report on promotional activities to date. Sebastian highlighted efforts to recruit advocates from Latin America.                                                           |
| Maintainer Evaluation Process               | Pedro discussed the maintainer retainer program document, requesting review for proposed questions to be used in the application form.                                                                                | Jonathan, who drafted the questions, emphasized the need for committee consensus on changes.                                                                                                    |
| Bug Bounty Document Review                  | Pedro noted that the bug bounty document also needed review and that there was input from Adam. He expressed concern that it might be outdated and that the committee might abstain from reviewing it.                | <p><br></p>                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Committee Operations and Engagement         | Pedro addressed the overall operational challenges, including attendance, task assignment, and document review. He suggested more collaborative work sessions.                                                        | Elaine proposed having specific individuals review documents rather than expecting everyone to review everything. Georg suggested providing meeting agendas with relevant documents beforehand. |
| Oversight Committee Clarification           | Pedro informed the committee that they are no longer involved in overseeing funded proposals, as Intersect has handpicked an "inaugural oversight committee."                                                         | Elaine sought clarification on this decision. Pedro explained Intersect's redefinition of the oversight committee, removing the OSC's role in it.                                               |
