# ðŸ™ƒ (08/14/2025) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

<table data-header-hidden><thead><tr><th width="146.93359375"></th><th width="113.17578125"></th><th width="131.375"></th><th></th><th></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Name</td><td>Attendance</td><td>Role</td><td>Voting Seat (Y/N)</td><td>Term</td></tr><tr><td>P. Lucas</td><td>No</td><td>Chair</td><td>Y</td><td>October 2025</td></tr><tr><td>Adam Dean</td><td>Yes</td><td>Vice Chair</td><td>Y</td><td>October 2025</td></tr><tr><td>Terence â€˜Texâ€™ McCutcheon</td><td>Yes</td><td>Secretary</td><td>N</td><td>N/A</td></tr><tr><td>Christian Taylor</td><td>Yes</td><td>SME</td><td>N</td><td>N/A</td></tr><tr><td>Arnaud Bailly</td><td>Yes</td><td>Member/Seat</td><td>Y</td><td>April 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Elaine Cardenas</td><td>Yes</td><td>Member/Seat</td><td>Y</td><td>April 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Georg Link  </td><td>Yes</td><td>Member/Seat</td><td>Y</td><td>April 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Jonathan Kelly</td><td>Yes</td><td>Member/Seat</td><td>Y</td><td>October 2025</td></tr><tr><td>Niels MÃ¼ndler</td><td>No</td><td>Member/Seat</td><td>Y</td><td>April 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Sebastian Pabon</td><td>No</td><td>Member/Seat</td><td>Y</td><td>October 2025</td></tr><tr><td>Philip DiSarro</td><td>Yes</td><td>Member/Seat</td><td>Y</td><td>April 2026</td></tr></tbody></table>

Community/Other Attendees

* Gordian Etim



**Recording:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/08/14 - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1mxtSZGsOmeDNaLgWyiKLedxv57FoJnTS/view?usp=sharing)

**Transcript:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/08/14 07:55 CDT - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14E2xTkvH3ABpBFPrJ25wlpCC7R29tpdYHcvHQSMX_6A/edit?usp=sharing)

**Chat Transcript**: [Open Source Committee Meeting â€“ 2025/08/14 â€“ Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1CTj_aCufobstiKP89IgAVj5rmboOnfmK/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

**Christian:** Head of Open Source Office, Intersect, OS SME\
**Tex:** Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary\
**Adam:** OSC, TSC Intersect, CIP Editors, DripDropz, LLC\
**Arnaud:** OSC Member, CF\
**Elaine:** newly elected OSC, Aira corporation CTO\
**Georg**: Bitergia\
**Johnny:** Non-Custodial Co-Management SysOps Engineer (Tech Janitor) for 3 Mainnet Cardano SPO Clients. Keystone Ambassador. Voting Seat Member on Technical Steering Committee and Open Source Committee.\
**Lucas:** OSC Chair, 45B.io(SMB onboarding)\
**Niels:** tbd\
**Sebastian:** OSC, Gimbalabs, contributor, Andamio co-founder.\
**Philip:** tbd&#x20;

## Agenda 08.14.25

* Budget
  * POSM
  * Milestone Approval
  * Project Support Services
* Voice Channels
* Continue using Zight?
* Reduce # of Discord threads
* Bug Bounty
* Maintainer Evaluation
* AOB
  * Pre-Recordings for OSC meetings
  * Developer Advocate Program Updates

## Decisions/Actions

#### Decisions

* The members agreed to continue with the current manual process for the bug bounty program, utilizing GitHub's built-in security features as an interim solution. The idea of using GitHoney was postponed due to a lack of tooling and potential privacy concerns related to KYC.
* There was a general agreement to support the idea of a protected main branch for repositories, requiring security council review before merging. This would remove the risk of vendor access.
* The maintainer retainer program will be revisited, and there was a suggestion to rename it to avoid confusion and pushback from existing maintainers.

#### Actions

* **Christian** shared a Discord poll for the two incubation requests and will also circulate the template for managing project support service requests. He will also schedule a meeting with Tex and the team to discuss the bug bounty program and KYC requirements. Additionally, he will set up a session for Adam, Philip, and Arnaud to draft a policy framework for the release process.
* **Terence** will research the specific wording regarding the 30-day payment delay on the GitBook. He will also schedule a meeting with the TXpipe team to discuss the GitHoney instance.
* **Elaine** will continue to follow up on the "LettuceMeet" availability calendar.
* **Jonathan** will be the point person from the Open Source Committee for the bug bounty program and will attend security council meetings. He also offered to share the invitation to the upcoming meeting on Monday to discuss the maintainer program with IO representatives.

| Topic                                     | Discussion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| ----------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Incubation Requests                       | There are two incubation requests for a vote in Discord. One is from Fusion, which is product-based and may not align with Intersect's mission. The other is from the No Witness Labs, which is for a different version of the Evolution SDK.                                                | Christian to share the Discord poll.                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Meeting Cadence                           | There was a discussion about adjusting the meeting times to better accommodate attendees. Philip is better in the afternoons, while Elaine is better in the mornings. Splitting the meeting or having an asynchronous coordination was suggested.                                            | Terence noted that Adamâ€™s presence makes a quorum. The committee can decide on a meeting schedule in the future.                                                                                                                                          |
| Budget and Milestone Approval             | The budget is mostly approved, but a final meeting is scheduled for tomorrow to work out any deviations from the milestones, such as the bug bounty.                                                                                                                                         | Terence and Christian are working with the operational services team to finalize the contract. The deadline for approval is tomorrow.                                                                                                                     |
| Project Support Services                  | The committee discussed how to allocate a budget for project support services like legal and security audits. A form has been created to categorize requests, which will determine the level of support needed.                                                                              | Christian and Tex will research and propose options, and then the OSC will decide on how to spend the funds. Christian will also share a template for managing the process.                                                                               |
| Funds Release Schedule                    | Adam clarified that there should not be a significant delay in payment as long as milestones are met. He explained that a smart contract will pay on a specific date unless a hold is explicitly placed on the account.                                                                      | The 30-day submission period for deliverables ahead of payment is still in place. Terence will research the verbiage in the GitBook.                                                                                                                      |
| Private Voice Channel                     | A private voice channel for the OSC was proposed to foster spontaneous communication.                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Terence confirmed that a continuous Google Meet has already been set up for this purpose, with a single link that is available at all times.                                                                                                              |
| Use of Zeit/Video for Async Communication | The committee discussed the low uptake of video summaries (Zite/Loom) for asynchronous communication. The consensus was that written communication is more efficient and easier to index.                                                                                                    | The committee decided to stop using video for asynchronous communication and will use Discord or other written formats instead.                                                                                                                           |
| Discord Thread Management                 | There was a concern that too many Discord threads are causing communication to fray and creating confusion.                                                                                                                                                                                  | The committee discussed minimizing the number of threads and using the GitBook to archive decisions and outcomes. They will continue this discussion in a separate work session.                                                                          |
| Bug Bounty Program                        | The bug bounty program is moving forward with a manual process for now. The committee will use GitHub's built-in vulnerability reporting feature. There was a discussion about whether KYC (Know Your Customer) is required for bug bounty rewards, which could discourage some researchers. | Jonathan will be the OSC member on this, and Christian will handle the legwork. A meeting with Christian and Terence will be set up to discuss GitHoney and the KYC policy.                                                                               |
| Maintainer Evaluation Program             | The committee discussed the maintainer retainer program and the concerns about giving vendors and external contributors direct access to the main branch. A meeting is set for Monday with IO and open-source office representatives to clarify the program's scope.                         | The committee agreed on the importance of having a clear path for external contributors to become maintainers and suggested renaming the program to something less contentious. Christian will set up a separate session to write out a policy framework. |
