# ðŸ˜† (08/21/2025) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name                     | Attendance | Role        | Voting Seat (Y/N) |
| ------------------------ | ---------- | ----------- | ----------------- |
| Elaine Cardenas          | Yes        | Vice Chair  | Y                 |
| Terence â€˜Texâ€™ McCutcheon | Yes        | Secretary   | N                 |
| Christian Taylor         | Yes        | SME         | N                 |
| P. Lucas                 | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Arnaud Bailly            | No         | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Adam Dean                | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Georg Link               | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Jonathan Kelly           | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Niels MÃ¼ndler            | No         | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Sebastian Pabon          | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Philip DiSarro           | No         | Member/Seat | Y                 |

Community/Other Attendees

* Christina Gianelloni
* Jordan Hill



**Recording:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/08/21 - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1NEr8kxzzPXLVtjdfRg8qCAw65ean2713/view?usp=sharing)

**Transcript:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/08/21 - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sumxqeEUmCxAGQRw6nZO-TovlFXqcfmTaRj9W4ZHjMg/edit?usp=sharing)

**Chat Transcript:** [Open Source Committee Meeting â€“ 2025/08/21 â€“ Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/19DGVnPWLwnr978S_InMcGB5jd3DRObT3/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

Christian: Head of Open Source Office, Intersect Staff

Tex: Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary

Sandip: Dquadrant

Adam: Adam Dean, LLC, Co-Founder, DripDropz, LLC, CIP Editors, Intersect Maintainer

Georg: TBD Bitergia

Lucas: 45B - Cardano Enablement, Onboarding end-users; Supporting cardano Projects;

Sebastian: Gimbalabs contributor, MeshJS contributor, Andamio platform co-founder

Johnny: Non-Custodial Co-Management SysOps Engineer (Tech Janitor) for 3 Mainnet Stake Pools. Cardano Keystone Wallet Ambassador.

Moritz: TBD&#x20;

Nicolas: TBD&#x20;

Robin: TBD&#x20;

## Agenda 08.21.25

Old Business

* Maintainer Evaluation process
* Bug Bounty Program

New Business

* Developer Advocate Selection
* Member polls for Community sentiment
* Clickup for managing Budget Programs
* Project Support Services
* Thread management - Discord
* Committee calendar/events

AOB

* OSC unelected contributors
* SME - Christina

## Decisions/Actions

* **Maintainer Program Scope:** The committee voted unanimously (by a quorum who voted) to change the scope of the Maintainer Retainer Program from 50 projects for a 6-month term to 25 projects for a 12-month term, while keeping the same budget.
* **External Expertise:** Christina Gianelloni was unanimously approved to join the Open Source Committee (by a quorum that voted) as a subject matter expert (SME). This is a non-voting, advisory role.
* **Project Management:** The committee will be using ClickUp to manage budget line items and to assign and track tasks for various programs.
* **Community Polling:** The committee will use the Intersect Members' Area to conduct polls and gather community sentiment for program-related decisions. The committee acknowledged that this tool should be used carefully to avoid confusion about who makes the final decisions.

#### Actions

* **Maintainer Program:** Elaine, Jonathan, Christian, and Georg will work together to update the maintainer evaluation document. Christian will also work on a presentation about the evaluation process to be presented at the next meeting.
* **Developer Advocates:** Committee members will review the candidate materials in Discord and provide their feedback by Monday so that selection and denial emails can be sent out.
* **Bug Bounty:** Christian will ping Arnaud to provide a status update on the bug bounty program. He will also look into the cost of integrating GitHoney for payment distribution.
* **Meetings:** The committee will discuss changing the meeting times and ensure all members have access to the Open Source Committee calendar. Christian and Terence will also coordinate with Sebastian for a short meeting to discuss the Developer Advocate candidates.

<table data-header-hidden><thead><tr><th width="159.12890625"></th><th></th><th></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Topic</td><td>Discussion</td><td>Notes</td></tr><tr><td>New Chair and Old Business</td><td>Terence and Elaine confirmed Elaine would be taking over as chair of the Open Source Committee (OSC) and thanked Lucas for his service as the previous chair. Elaine then confirmed the meeting agenda and asked to take care of old business first.</td><td>Lucas stepped down as OSC chair and Elaine stepped into the role.</td></tr><tr><td>Maintainer Evaluation Process</td><td>Jonathan provided an update on the Maintainer Retainer Program, stating that they finalized the questions for the application form and that they are ready to go. They are also coordinating with IOE for a weekly standup to review candidate applications and to coordinate on core repository lead input for the process. Jonathan noted that the application will go out after the Developer Advocate Program finishes its process. He also mentioned that they are working to integrate maintainers into existing workflows and communications. He also noted that they surveyed community members to see which external repositories are considered critical to the ecosystem. Christian added that the working group is using the same criteria to evaluate projects and that they changed the scope of the program from 50 projects to 25 and extended the term from 6 months to 12.</td><td>A change of scope was proposed: 25 maintainers for 12 months instead of 50 for 6 months, keeping the same cost.</td></tr><tr><td>Voting on Program Changes</td><td>Jonathan and Christian both agreed that a 12-month term is more effective for sustainability. Christian suggested a quick vote to officially make the change. Elaine brought up the topic of ongoing evaluation during the term and Jonathan clarified that maintainers would still be evaluated, they wouldn't just be "set and forget." Christian mentioned they can be removed at any point for bad behavior. A formal removal process will be worked on.</td><td>The committee voted and unanimously approved the change to 25 maintainers for a 12-month period.</td></tr><tr><td>Automation in Evaluation</td><td>Adam and Georg suggested leveraging tools to automate the evaluation process by using a dashboard to filter maintainers and see their activity levels. Adam suggested focusing on the percentage of workload addressed rather than raw numbers of commits or PRs. Christina suggested looking at the length of time tickets are open. Christian shared a link to a document on the evaluation process and said they would present an update on it next week.</td><td>The committee agreed to use automation to evaluate maintainers, focusing on activity and workload addressed.</td></tr><tr><td>Inviting an SME to the OSC</td><td>Terence announced that Christina had been invited to join the OSC as a subject matter expert (SME). She introduced herself as the COO of Blink Labs, head of the Pragma board, host of Cardano Over Coffee, and also noted her 20 years of experience in IT management and M&#x26;A, as well as her experience in open source. Georg asked how this would work structurally since she is not an elected member. Terence and Christian clarified that this role is not an elected, voting seat but an on-call consultation role for additional expertise and oversight.</td><td>Christina was invited to join the OSC as a non-voting SME.</td></tr><tr><td>Bug Bounty Program Update</td><td>Christian provided an update, noting the framework document is finalized. He added that they're working with delivery insurance and are doing a manual process with GitHub for now before transitioning to GitHoney as demand grows. Christian mentioned they're working on the public-facing page and security files. Jonathan added that he is involved in attending the meetings and that the proposed solution for reporting bugs is through GitHub's native interface. Terence asked how the payment structure would work. Christian noted that there's a $7,000 security council budget for tooling that could be used to pay for the API needed to distribute funds.</td><td>The bug bounty program framework is finalized, and they are working on the milestones. The plan is to start with a GitHub-native process and then use GitHoney for payments in the future.</td></tr><tr><td>Developer Advocate Selection</td><td>Terence provided an update on the Developer Advocate selection process. He noted that the selected candidates have been provided in the Discord channel. He asked committee members to review the recordings and transcripts and provide their feedback by Monday. Jonathan mentioned he was in attendance at all the interviews and that all the resources are available in Discord. Sebastian raised a concern about geographic distribution, but Terence and Jonathan both noted that the selection was based on technical ability and merit, rather than location.</td><td>Candidates have been selected, and committee members were asked to review the materials and provide feedback by Monday.</td></tr><tr><td>Community Sentiment Polls</td><td>Terence proposed using the tooling in the Intersect Members' Area to conduct votes to gather community sentiment. Jonathan was in favor of this, but Adam raised a concern, stating that using polls for budgetary decisions could be inefficient and that the committee was given delegated authority to make these decisions. Christian and Elaine agreed it could be a useful tool but should be used sparingly and with clear communication to the community about the purpose of the polls.</td><td>The poll was nullified, the committee appreciates that the tool is available but has not made a formal decision regarding when or how it should be used.</td></tr><tr><td>ClickUp for Program Management</td><td>Elaine announced they will be using ClickUp to manage budget line items. Terence and Christian stated this would streamline processes and that Christian would take the lead on managing tasks within the platform.</td><td>The committee decided to use ClickUp for project management and task delegation.</td></tr><tr><td>Calendar and Meeting Invites</td><td>Elaine raised an issue with Google Calendar dropping invites and shared a link to a Calendarly document explaining the issue. She urged everyone to adjust their settings. Terence clarified that he had sent an invite to the committee's shared calendar, and Jonathan confirmed he had received and enabled it. Elaine noted that the next meeting's time might need to be changed due to scheduling conflicts.</td><td>The committee will check their emails for a shared calendar invite to get all recurring meeting events. The topic of changing the meeting time will be discussed later.</td></tr></tbody></table>
