# ðŸ¤“ (09/04/2025) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name                     | Attendance | Role      | Voting Seat (Y/N) | Term         |
| ------------------------ | ---------- | --------- | ----------------- | ------------ |
| Elaine Cardenas          | Yes        | Chair     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Terence â€˜Texâ€™ McCutcheon | Yes        | Secretary | N                 | N/A          |
| Christian Taylor         | Yes        | SME       | N                 | N/A          |
| P. Lucas                 | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | October 2025 |
| Adam Dean                | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | October 2025 |
| Arnaud Bailly            | No         | Member    | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Georg Link               | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Jonathan Kelly           | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | October 2025 |
| Niels MÃ¼ndler            | No         | Member    | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Sebastian Pabon          | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | October 2025 |
| Philip DiSarro           | No         | Member    | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Christina Gianelloni     | Yes        | SME       | N                 | N/A          |

Community/Other Attendees

* Aaron Boyle
* Harun Mwangi
* Jordan Hill
* Ryan Williams
* Uche Obasi



**Recording:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/09/04 - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1GGz16EZcWIpgsktkIzuEdbszR1saOYDr/view?usp=sharing)

**Transcript:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/09/04 - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11mBmpoahn6uFOM6Ijc0DaOgVRSFKm-5oMRQbTcrwXTg/edit?usp=sharing)

**Chat Transcript:** [Open Source Committee Meeting â€“ 2024/09/04 â€“ Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1AhfsrKrDZqDB6_ehd2UrNO19wLhQAcvW/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

**Christian:** Head of Open Source Office, Intersect, OS SME\
**Tex:** Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary\
**Adam:** OSC, TSC Intersect, CIP Editors, DripDropz, LLC\
**Arnaud:** OSC Member, CF\
**Elaine:** newly elected OSC, Aira corporation CTO\
**Georg:** Bitergia\
**Johnny:** Non-Custodial Co-Management SysOps Engineer (Tech Janitor) for 3 Mainnet Cardano SPO Clients. Keystone Ambassador. Voting Seat Member on Technical Steering Committee and Open Source Committee.\
**Lucas:** OSC Chair, 45B.io(SMB onboarding)\
**Niels:** tbd\
**Sebastian:** OSC, Gimbalabs, contributor, Andamio co-founder.\
**Philip:** tbd&#x20;

## Agenda 09.04.25

* DAP - Onboarding Status
* OSC Events - Open Source Summit Korea
* Maintainer Retainer
  * Application form
  * Interview Structure
* Tooling Sustainability
  * Application form
* Committee Elections Comms/Questions
* Accelerator
* Stipend - Summer of Code
* AOB

## Decisions/Actions

#### Decisions

* **OSC Events Budget:** The committee voted to stick to the original USD value for budget line items, rejecting the proposal to switch to ADA. This decision was made to maintain consistency with previous budget decisions.
* **Committee Elections:** The new, more detailed questions for committee applications will be finalized. A poll will be posted on Discord to confirm the new questions.

#### Actions

* **Terence:** Follow up with Lara from Intersect to clarify the budget for the Open Source Summit in Korea. Place Jonathan and Elaine on the developer advocate meeting invites. Put a poll on Discord for the new committee election questions.
* **Jonathan:** Review the application forms for the maintainer retainer program.
* **Sebastian:** Take the lead on identifying suitable channels for marketing the programs once they are ready.
* **Elaine:** Take the lead on providing regular updates on the Developer Advocate program. She will also schedule one-on-one meetings with committee members to discuss delegation.
* **Christian:** Work with the tooling working group to find a more globally accessible meeting time. Coordinate with Kris Kowalski to send meeting invites for the Accelerator program.
* **All Committee Members:** Review the revised committee election questions and the open source committee page for potential changes. Provide feedback on the forms for the Maintainer Retainer program.

| Topic                                 | Discussion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| ------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Developer Advocate Program Onboarding | Terence provided an update on the program. The weekly sync for the four developer advocates is scheduled for Mondays at 4:00/5:00 UTC. The program's official start date is October 1, 2025.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Jonathan and Elaine requested to be added to the weekly developer advocate meetings.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| OSC Events & Budget                   | Terence discussed two potential events: the Open Source Summit and the Cardano Summit. The committee is considering sponsoring the Open Source Summit in Korea, which would use a significant portion of the events budget. The question of whether the OSC would also cover Intersect staff costs for the event was raised. Christian clarified that Intersect Ops costs should not come from the OSC budget and that Intersect had already approved the event. | A follow-up with Laura from Intersect will be conducted to clarify the budget issue. The question of whether to hold to the USD or ADA value for the events budget was debated. The consensus was to stick to the original USD value to avoid contradicting previous decisions and maintain consistency. |
| Maintainer Retainer Program           | The application form and interview structure are up for review on Discord. Jonathan raised concerns about potential delays due to pushback from core maintainers regarding the "maintainer" title and direct access to repositories. Christian is working on a compromise, suggesting a phased approach starting with less stringent projects and potentially using different titles like "community representative maintainer."                                 | Sebastian expressed concern about the lack of marketing for this and other programs. Terence clarified that marketing would begin once the programs are fully built. Adam asked Sebastian to take a takeaway action to identify good marketing channels.                                                 |
| Tooling Sustainability Program        | Christian updated the committee on the proposed two-phase structure. The first phase involves a pre-selection checklist for applicants, and the second involves presentations. They are qualifying the checklist and selection criteria. Adam raised the issue of the meeting time (3:00 AM Pacific) being inaccessible for many. Elaine suggested alternating times or adding a second meeting to accommodate different time zones.                             | The committee agreed to work on finding a more globally accessible meeting time for the tooling working group.                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| Committee Elections                   | Terence noted that the committee needs to finalize the revised election questions by next week. The new questions are more detailed and reflect the committee's new responsibilities with budget and program management. A poll will be posted on Discord to finalize the questions.                                                                                                                                                                             | The committee needs to review and provide feedback on the updated questions in Discord. Jonathan, Elaine, and Adam were in favor of the new questions.                                                                                                                                                   |
| Accelerator Program                   | Christian reported that Chris Kowalski and John Woodward are leading the program. They are working to clarify the role of mentors and the criteria for project inclusion. Harun asked for a brief explanation of the program. Christian described it as a funnel to help post-Catalyst projects with an MVP by providing mentors and scaling strategies.                                                                                                         | The program's timeline is likely late this year or early next year. A Google Meet invitation for the upcoming meeting will be shared.                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Summer of Code Program                | Terence asked if the funds should be used for a paid lead or primarily for participants and events. Christian mentioned that Intersect would prefer the program to be managed by a company on a contract to reduce administrative overhead. The program's timeline is likely for next summer. Adam questioned whether the committee is equipped to execute the program given the current workload.                                                               | The program's future is uncertain, and if a lead is not found, the funds may need to be returned to the treasury. Georg suggested starting a Discord thread for further discussion.                                                                                                                      |
| Project Support Services              | Terence raised a question about the utility of this program. Adam and Sebastian pointed out that the lack of awareness about the program and its benefits is a major issue. Christian acknowledged a fumble with a previous marketing attempt that limited applications. He also noted that while there is demand for legal consultation, it's currently free and the funds would only be used if there's a price tag.                                           | Adam expressed his concern that already well-funded companies like MLABS should not be taking advantage of these funds.                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Delegation & Future Meetings          | Adam requested a dedicated champion for the Developer Advocate Program to provide regular updates to the main committee. Elaine volunteered to take on this role. Terence closed the meeting by emphasizing the need for delegation and asking committee members to volunteer for specific tasks.                                                                                                                                                                | Elaine announced she will be scheduling one-on-one meetings with committee members to discuss delegation.                                                                                                                                                                                                |
