---
hidden: true
---

# (09/18/2025) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name                     | Attendance | Role      | Voting Seat (Y/N) | Term         |
| ------------------------ | ---------- | --------- | ----------------- | ------------ |
| Elaine Cardenas          | Yes        | Chair     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Terence ‘Tex’ McCutcheon | Yes        | Secretary | N                 | N/A          |
| Christian Taylor         | Yes        | SME       | N                 | N/A          |
| P. Lucas                 | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | October 2025 |
| Adam Dean                | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | October 2025 |
| Arnaud Bailly            | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Georg Link               | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Jonathan Kelly           | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | October 2025 |
| Sebastian Pabon          | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | October 2025 |
| Philip DiSarro           | No         | Member    | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Empty Seat               | No         | Member    | <p><br></p>       | April 2026   |
| Christina Gianelloni     | Yes        | SME       | N                 | N/A          |

Community/Other Attendees

* Aaron Boyle
* Andrew Aitken
* Dan Baruka
* Emmanuel Titi
* Harun Mwangi
* Jack Briggs
* James Meidinger
* Jordan Hill\


**Recording:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/09/18 - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1331nm2wFQYZOPeHDU8ldx4hSAP7ql0k3/view?usp=sharing)

**Transcript:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/09/18 - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sgENrWSYBR0UuN7pmZMq-YBhSrFwRGQxnCHKiswzg58/edit?usp=sharing)

**Chat Transcript:** [Open Source Committee Meeting – 2025/09/18 – Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1MqmnbWn48JkSXnaoGxPQuNUhfDp4Gyp8/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

**Christian:** Head of Open Source Office, Intersect, OS SME

**Tex:** Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, GMC/MCC/TSC/OSC Secretary

**Adam:** OSC, TSC Intersect, CIP Editors, DripDropz, LLC

**Arnaud**: OSC Member, CF

**Elaine:** newly elected OSC, Aira corporation CTO

**Georg:** Bitergia

**Johnny:** Non-Custodial Co-Management SysOps Engineer (Tech Janitor) for 3 Mainnet Cardano SPO Clients. Keystone Ambassador. Voting Seat Member on Technical Steering Committee and Open Source Committee.

**Lucas:** OSC Chair, 45B.io(SMB onboarding)

**Sebastian:** OSC, Gimbalabs, contributor, Andamio co-founder.

**Philip:** tbd&#x20;

## Agenda 09.18.25

* MRP Individuals Application
* Interview questions for MRP
* TSP compliance criteria tool
* Budget Decisions
  * USDM Conversion
  * Events Policy&#x20;
  * Events List
* DA Contracts
* Open Forum

## Decisions/Actions

#### Decisions

* The committee decided to postpone the approval of the **TSP Compliance Criteria Tool** until the working group meeting to discuss it further.
* The committee members agreed to review the **Events Policy** asynchronously to finalize it.
* The committee is in favor of moving forward with the **USDM conversion**, pending the receipt and review of the formal documentation.

#### Actions

* **Terence** will create a Discord thread for committee members to post questions regarding the USDM conversion and the formal documentation requested by the committee.
* **Elaine** and **Terence** will schedule an off-cycle meeting next week to finalize the USDM conversion, events policy, and other pending decisions.
* **Jack** and his team will fix the language in the Events Policy to clarify that per diem allowances apply to committee members.
* **Terence** will reformat the Developer Advocate contract to use more specific language regarding milestones and deliverables.
* **Terence** will take action to explore the backfilling of vacant committee seats using runners-up from the October elections.
* **All committee members** are asked to submit event suggestions using the provided form.

| Topic                                                    | Discussion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Notes                                                                                                    |
| -------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Maintainer Retainer Program (MRP) Individual Application | Elaine asks for an update on the MRP individual application form. Jonathan confirms it's fully done and approved by core project management. Christian clarifies that the form is in draft and is waiting for the project list to be finalized via the project interest form.          | Christian says the individual application form will be sent out within a week.                           |
| MRP Interview Questions                                  | Elaine mentions the interview questions are mostly complete but might need more time to finish in a single session. Jonathan raises a concern about discussing the questions on a public, recorded call. Christian suggests discussing them in a work session later that day.          | A formal document with the interview questions will be reviewed in a private session.                    |
| TSC Compliance Criteria Tool                             | The discussion moves to a tool for checking compliance criteria for tooling budget applications. Jonathan and Christian explain it's a script that provides automatic feedback to applicants, saving admin time and reducing application rejection cycles.                             | The tool is a draft script in an inactive repo, not fully finalized.                                     |
| Tooling Tool Origin and Vetting                          | Adam and Arnaud question the script's origin and lack of comments. They raise concerns about API access and trust. Jonathan and Christian clarify that Leonard Heggerty wrote the script and it needs to be vetted properly before being released.                                     | The script is to be discussed further in the upcoming working group meeting.                             |
| Need for New Tooling                                     | Adam argues that existing tools like Beturgia could be used instead of creating a new script. He feels it's a waste of resources to build new tools when existing ones are available. Jonathan and Christian counter that the new script saves time and reduces administrative burden. | The new tool is a quick check to save time before using professional tooling for in-depth reviews.       |
| USDM Conversion and Budget                               | The committee discusses converting excess ADA funds to USDM (a stablecoin) to manage the budget in a stable US dollar value. Sebastian expresses concern about the informal nature of the proposal, asking for a formal document.                                                      | A formal document with the motivation and details of the conversion is requested.                        |
| USDM Liquidity and Cost                                  | Sebastian notes the liquidity for USDM is currently zero. James provides context on the conversion process via an Over-the-Counter (OTC) deal, stating the minting cost is zero, but the OTC trade has a fee of 0.5% that can be reduced by grouping committees together.              | James states the fee is 0.5% and can be lower for larger amounts.                                        |
| Budget and Fiduciary Responsibility                      | Adam and Jonathan argue that converting to USDM is a responsible fiduciary decision to lock in the budget's value against ADA volatility and return excess funds to the treasury. Jack Briggs explains the minting and distribution process, noting it takes about a week.             | The committee agrees to formally vote on the conversion once more details and a report are available.    |
| Events Policy                                            | The committee discusses a new events policy that simplifies the approval of expenses. Elaine raises the need for a per diem policy for food for committee members, not just external participants. Jack agrees to fix the policy to include committee members.                         | The policy's values for travel and accommodation will be reviewed asynchronously.                        |
| Events List and Developer Advocate Contract              | Terence asks members to add events to a list for future planning. He then asks for a review of the developer advocate contract. Georg expresses concern that the milestones are too loose and should be written with clearer acceptance criteria.                                      | Terence agrees to reformat the contract to be more specific.                                             |
| Staffing and Elections                                   | Terence announces that Neils has stepped down from the committee. A discussion ensues about whether to backfill the position. Adam and Jonathan advocate for filling the vacant seat from the October elections' runners-up to ensure the committee is fully staffed.                  | The committee agrees to explore backfilling the vacant seat with a runner-up from the October elections. |
