# ðŸ§” (09/20/2024) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

* Christian Taylor (OSO Rep) [Christian Taylor](mailto:christian.taylor@intersectmbo.org)
* Nicholas Clarke [nicholas.clarke@tweag.io](mailto:nicholas.clarke@tweag.io)
* Sandip Pandey [sandip@dquadrant.com](mailto:sandip@dquadrant.com)
* Ronald Span [ronald@dquadrant.com](mailto:ronald@dquadrant.com)
* Terence McCutcheon [Terence McCutcheon](mailto:terence.mccutcheon@intersectmbo.org)
* Adam Dean [adam@crypto2099.io](mailto:adam@crypto2099.io)
* Diane Mueller [dmueller@bitergia.com](mailto:dmueller@bitergia.com)
* Neman Lanier&#x20;
* Nicolas Henin [mr.henin@gmail.com](mailto:mr.henin@gmail.com)
* Robin BÃ¶ning [robin.boening@gmail.com](mailto:robin.boening@gmail.com)
* Simon Fleck [seomon.register@gmail.com](mailto:seomon.register@gmail.com)

Recording: [Open Source Committee (Intersect) â€“ 2024/09/20 07:51 CDT â€“ Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ODN8ZmDZHIlNSDicgY9vlwxg9i\_J30CT/view?usp=sharing)

\


Transcript: [Open Source Committee (Intersect) â€“ 2024/09/20 07:51 CDT â€“ Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SQjg6Bx4CNO0AgRmz1pywQgioqEoFnu63zibbbCKitA/edit?usp=sharing)

\


Chat Transcript: [https://drive.google.com/file/d/1gVsX3\_Sj7ueucWGFAoDSHxOmL9g7SoWV/view?usp=sharing](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1gVsX3\_Sj7ueucWGFAoDSHxOmL9g7SoWV/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

Christian: Head of Open Source Office, Intersect Staff

Tex: Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary

Nick: Director of Engineering at Tweag/Modus Create

Sandip: Dquadrant

Adam: Adam Dean LLC, CIP Editor, ICC Member, OS Maintainer Pilot, DripDropz

Ronald: CEO Dquadrant, Intersect Member

Robin: Stake Pool Operator, Cardano Cube

Nicolas: Innovation Technical Architect, IOHK

Diane: Director, Research and Advisory Services, Bitergia

## Agenda 9.20.24

* Review Current Priorities/Tasking of OSC
* Intro/Interview Session for OSC Electorates
* Budget Draft/edits
* Review Seats leaving/ up for re-election
* Open Forum\


| Discussion Point              | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Actions: Responsible / Note                                                                                           |
| ----------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| OSC Overview and Priorities   | Nicholas Clarke reviewed the OSCâ€™s current priorities. An audit of Cardano projects is underway, with 80% of projects expected to be completed by Q4. Terence McCutcheon is managing the audit and updating security policies.                                                                                         | Terence to finalize the audit and follow up with developers for incomplete repositories.                              |
| Audits and Maintainers        | The audits are carried out by the Open Source Office. Diane requested a column to track lead maintainers. Terence agreed to add this. Christian is conducting an audit on co-diversity and will report in the next meeting.                                                                                            | Christian to complete the audit and Diane to review tracking mechanisms for maintainers.                              |
| Diversified Funding Model     | Christian discussed the goal of having 50% of projects with diversified funding. The discussion included a $150,000 budget proposal for 50 repositories. Adam mentioned the corporate sponsor model for future work contracts.                                                                                         | Christian to elaborate on diversified funding models tied to the budget process.                                      |
| Governance Policy Enforcement | Governance policies are being implemented, but private conversations are still ongoing. Most projects are expected to comply with the governance policy by the end of September.                                                                                                                                       | Christian to follow up with projects that have not yet adopted the governance policy.                                 |
| Security Framework            | The security framework has been established. Projects are responsible for adhering to the security policies. Security documentation will be updated by the end of September.                                                                                                                                           | Christian to ensure all security policies are reflected in the repositories by the end of the month.                  |
| Chair Transition              | Nicholas Clarke is stepping down as Chair. Internal elections will be held for a new Chair. Christian suggested waiting until after the member elections for a full house.                                                                                                                                             | Terence to organize a self-nomination process for the Chair role.                                                     |
| Budget Draft                  | The draft budget proposal includes the maintainer retainer program and project support. Discussion on overlap with the TSC budget and ensuring a diversified maintainer list was considered.                                                                                                                           | Committee members to review and provide feedback on the budget draft.                                                 |
| New Member Introductions      | New members Diane, Robin, and Nicolas introduced themselves, sharing their background and interests in open source.                                                                                                                                                                                                    | No specific action items.                                                                                             |
| Repository Dependencies       | Sandip brought up the need to address dependencies within repositories. Diane suggested using tools like Snyk for auditing dependencies.                                                                                                                                                                               | Christian to investigate tools for auditing repository dependencies.                                                  |
| Open Source Summit Feedback   | Feedback from the Open Source Summit in EU was shared. Attendees had mixed reactions to blockchain due to recent events, but there was positive engagement after explaining Cardanoâ€™s open-source contributions. The event highlighted the need for more education and improved messaging for blockchain technologies. | Christian to continue outreach and refine the message for future events.                                              |
| Elections and Member Process  | The member election process was discussed. Currently, three verified applicants are running for four available seats.                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Terence to ensure members are informed of the election process and encourage additional applicants by September 27th. |

\
