# (10/02/2025) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name                     | Attendance | Role      | Voting Seat (Y/N) | Term         |
| ------------------------ | ---------- | --------- | ----------------- | ------------ |
| Elaine Cardenas          | Yes        | Chair     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Terence ‘Tex’ McCutcheon | Yes        | Secretary | N                 | N/A          |
| Christian Taylor         | Yes        | SME       | N                 | N/A          |
| P. Lucas                 | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | October 2025 |
| Adam Dean                | No         | Member    | Y                 | October 2025 |
| Arnaud Bailly            | No         | Member    | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Georg Link               | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Jonathan Kelly           | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | October 2025 |
| Sebastian Pabon          | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | October 2025 |
| Philip DiSarro           | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Empty Seat               | No         | Member    | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Christina Gianelloni     | No         | SME       | N                 | N/A          |

Community/Other Attendees

* Alex Seregin
* Andrew Aitken
* Dan Baruka
* Harun Mwangi
* James Dunseith
* Jordan Hill
* Nori Nishigaya
* Roberto Mayen
* Uche Obasi



**Recording:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/10/02 - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1j79mkkknBDlwS2Wqr_zSF2zy4nk43u3u/view?usp=sharing)

**Transcript:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/10/02 - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1beTvqCrcKQitcTEK6tcSnXc9oLL8Y9adrtEIayvWeZg/edit?usp=sharing)

**Chat Transcript:** [Open Source Committee Meeting – 2025/10/02 07:56 CST – Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ahbCDESbguS1L3yicSeXTESbVB2QEQZw/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

**Christian:** Head of Open Source Office, Intersect, OS SME\
**Tex:** Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, GMC/MCC/OSC/TSC Secretary, Committee Liaison\
**Adam:** OSC, TSC Intersect, CIP Editors, DripDropz, LLC\
**Arnaud:** OSC Member, CF\
**Elaine:** newly elected OSC, Aira corporation CTO\
**Georg:** Bitergia\
**Johnny:** Non-Custodial Co-Management SysOps Engineer (Tech Janitor) for 3 Mainnet Cardano SPO Clients. Keystone Ambassador. Voting Seat Member on Technical Steering Committee and Open Source Committee.\
**Lucas:**  45B.io(SMB onboarding)\
**Sebastian:** OSC, Gimbalabs, contributor, Andamio co-founder.\
**Philip:** tbd &#x20;

## Agenda 10.02.25

* Payment tools for recurring payments
* Committee Elections Comms
* MRP Individual Application Comms
* MRP Selection process
* TSP submission workflows
* Async Member activities

## Decisions/Actions

**Decisions**

* **Payment Tool Follow-up:** The committee decided to postpone the final decision on the MRP payment tool (Andamio vs. others) until a presentation and quote are received from Intersect staff and the Andamio team.
* **AI Policy Initiative:** The committee formally decided to initiate the creation of an AI Policy by forming an ad hoc working group and having Christian draft a charter. – _Confirmation vote to occur in Discord._&#x20;

**Actions**

* **Schedule Andamio Follow-up:** Elaine, Christian, and Terence are to schedule the follow-up meeting with Intersect staff and the Andamio team to get a quote, confirm buy-in, and organize a workflow demo.
* **Draft MRP Process Documents:** Elaine will draft the initial document outlining the MRP interview process.
* **Coordinate Office Hours:** Terence will collect available times from committee members and coordinate the scheduling and promotion of the "divide and conquer" open office hours.
* **Boost Comms:** All Committee Members are tasked with drafting and posting X posts/tweets to promote the committee elections and the MRP application period.
* **Draft AI Working Group Charter:** Christian will work on a charter to form the ad hoc working group for the AI Policy initiative. (Once official approval is determined)
* **Secretary Support:** Terence asked departing members to help onboard new committee members after the election.

| Topic                                           | Discussion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| ----------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Maintainer Retainer Program (MRP) Payment Tools | Discussion on using various payment tools for recurring payments for the MRP. Andamio was previously discussed with Intersect; Jonathan found another tool, mass payments.                                                                                                                               | Andamio remains the primary focus. Mass payments link shared in chat.                                                                                                                                                                           |
| Andamio as a Platform                           | Georg shared his positive impressions of Andamio after meeting with James, noting it's a credentialing platform that tracks course completion and can use credentials as prerequisites for tasks. It can manage tasks (e.g., maintainer activity reporting) and automatically process payments on-chain. | Solves the issue of Intersect's reluctance to handle many small contracts. Provides transparent and auditable program management. Potential for use in other programs (e.g., bug bounties).                                                     |
| Andamio Value Proposition                       | Jonathan initially opposed it if it were only a "one to many payment system" but agreed it has more value if it can track milestones and make administrative tasks easier, as Georg described. Elaine concurred.                                                                                         | Andamio is more valuable if it can be leveraged for administrative functions beyond just mass payments.                                                                                                                                         |
| Andamio Customization and Cost                  | Elaine asked about necessary customization and cost. Jonathan suggested having Intersect staff present their problem and why they think Andamio fits.                                                                                                                                                    | Next steps should include scheduling a meeting with Intersect staff to get a quote and understand their perspective.                                                                                                                            |
| Andamio Pilot Details & Fees                    | James (from Andamio) explained for the pilot scope (up to 50 maintainers and 10 facilitators), no platform changes are needed. The only fees are on-chain.                                                                                                                                               | No platform fees for the pilot. Onboarding cost is approx. 8 ADA (lifetime fee) per person. Registering the project/course combo is 250 ADA (one-time fee). Project only is 150 ADA. A 1% commission on completed work will go live in January. |
| Andamio Auditability                            | James emphasized that if the goal is to create an auditable trail, Andamio is the most efficient way, not just for token distribution. It uses hashing for reports to ensure on-chain auditability.                                                                                                      | Provides efficiency in achieving the desired level of on-chain auditability.                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Andamio Integration and Follow-up               | Georg suggested future integration with the detergia platform for automating work verification after the pilot. Elaine requested scheduling a follow-up with the Intersect team to ensure they are on board.                                                                                             | The follow-up meeting with Intersect staff should have a written agenda and include a demo of a workflow, as requested by Jonathan and James.                                                                                                   |
| Committee Elections Strategy                    | Discussion on how to promote engagement for the recently opened committee elections before the application deadline (14th at noon UTC). Strategies included X Spaces, Streamyard live streams, and the Cardano Round Table video series.                                                                 | Action Plan: Utilize X Spaces, independent X posts by members, explore Streamyard for multi-platform live stream, reach out to Marcus about a Cardano Round Table, and check with Kyle about Space Place.                                       |
| Committee Elections Office Hours                | Discussion on holding open office hours to engage potential candidates. Georg suggested a "divide and conquer" approach where members take short, scheduled slots to cover more time zones.                                                                                                              | Action: Committee members to drop available times in the channel for Terence (Secretary) to coordinate the Google Meet scheduling. This needs to go out quickly.                                                                                |
| MRP Communications                              | Need to boost individual applications for the MRP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Action: All members to draft a unique tweet/X post about the MRP (not just retweet).                                                                                                                                                            |
| MRP Interview Cycle Structure                   | Discussed how to structure the interview process. Terence requested a documented process, and Elaine offered to draft it based on the interview questions she wrote.                                                                                                                                     | Action: Elaine to create an initial draft of the interview process document (due Monday or Tuesday). Preference for ad hoc scheduling of the second interview with organizations via Terence's calendar.                                        |
| Workflow for Submissions                        | Elaine proposed a simple, two-step workflow for submission using a tool to download, attest, and prepare a submission (via form/email), followed by a simple re-running of the tool before acceptance to check for tampering.                                                                            | Action: Elaine will write up a document detailing this straightforward submission workflow. The committee expressed support.                                                                                                                    |
| AI Policy Initiative                            | Christian proposed the Open Source Committee (OSC) lead the creation of an AI policy related to GitHub interactions, coding, and security, especially concerning core Cardano projects. Andrew Aitken (guest) expressed interest in assisting.                                                           | Action: Christian will work on a charter to spin up an ad hoc working group focused on AI Policy, following an informal consensus from the committee.                                                                                           |
