# ðŸ˜¶ (10/30/2025) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name                     | Attendance | Role      | Voting Seat (Y/N) | Term         |
| ------------------------ | ---------- | --------- | ----------------- | ------------ |
| Elaine Cardenas          | Yes        | Chair     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Terence â€˜Texâ€™ McCutcheon | Yes        | Secretary | N                 | N/A          |
| Christian Taylor         | Yes        | SME       | N                 | N/A          |
| P. Lucas                 | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | October 2025 |
| Adam Dean                | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | October 2025 |
| Arnaud Bailly            | No         | Member    | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Georg Link               | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Jonathan Kelly           | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | October 2025 |
| Sebastian Pabon          | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | October 2025 |
| Philip DiSarro           | No         | Member    | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Empty Seat               | No         | Member    | Y                 | April 2026   |

**Community/Other Attendees**

* Andrew Aitken
* Dan Baruka
* Emmanuel Titi
* Gemma Dakin
* Harun Mwangi
* Minh Bui
* Nick Cook
* Uche Obasi<br>

**Recording:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/10/30 - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1LDlPX-n3BuMUVoFYvAeboSNY4B0PtC-3/view?usp=sharing)

**Transcript:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/10/30 - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DNkhQhW9TnECvARevZUJGpvf31V6-ityr7_6J_C-jXU/edit?usp=sharing)

**Chat Transcript:** [Open Source Committee Meeting â€“ 2025/10/30 â€“ Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1LOOnQ_gadTrZaiUd7Dqu6PRkz2IvHOcO/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

**Christian:** Head of Open Source Office, Intersect, OS SME\
**Tex:** Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary\
**Adam:** OSC, TSC Intersect, CIP Editors, DripDropz, LLC\
**Arnaud:** OSC Member, CF\
**Elaine:** newly elected OSC, Aira corporation CTO\
**Georg:** Bitergia\
**Johnny:** Non-Custodial Co-Management SysOps Engineer (Tech Janitor) for 3 Mainnet Cardano SPO Clients. Keystone Ambassador. Voting Seat Member on Technical Steering Committee and Open Source Committee.\
**Lucas:** OSC Chair, 45B.io(SMB onboarding)\
**Sebastian:** OSC, Gimbalabs, contributor, Andamio co-founder.\
**Philip:** tbd&#x20;

## Agenda 10.30.25

* Nominate Chair & Vice Chair
* Discuss Charter
* Open Forum

## Decisions/Actions

**Decisions**

* **Five Statements of Work (SOWs) Confirmed:** The committee confirmed that five SOWsâ€”Developer Advocates, Travel, Bug Bounty, Tooling Sustainability, and Security Incident Managerâ€”have been signed off from a procurement perspective.
* **Meeting Cadence Change Approved:** The revised meeting schedule for November and December was approved to accommodate the Cardano Summit and US holidays (November 6th & 20th; December 4th, 11th, & 18th).
* **Transition to Work Session:** The main public meeting was formally closed and transitioned into an Open Source Committee (OSC) work session to discuss the Maintainer Program (MRP) next steps.

**Actions**

* **Share Signed SOW Documents:** Elaine is to share the five signed Statements of Work documents with the committee later today.
* **Implement Milestone Tracking:** The committee should formalize more discussion around milestone tracking and begin collecting monthly evidence (e.g., from Developer Advocates) to prepare for quarterly Treasury milestone requests.
* **Review Summer of Code Proposals:** The OSO team (Tex and Christian) needs to review the proposals from MLABS, C#, and Newcast to ensure they align with the desired program structure (similar to Google Summer of Code) before the committee formally reviews them.
* **Schedule Summer of Code Follow-up Meeting:** A follow-up meeting is to be scheduled outside of the normal cadence to discuss the Google Summer of Code proposals and budget allocation in depth.
* **Share Incubation Project Proposals:** Christian is to send the proposals for the new incubation projects (IO-SIM, typed-protocols, Serdoc) to both the Technical Steering Committee (TSC) and the OSC by the end of today.
* **Schedule New Cadence:** Tex is to proceed with scheduling the new meeting dates for the remainder of the year.
* **Prepare for MRP Interviews:** Sebastian will lead the process of scheduling interviews for the Maintainer Program candidates during the follow-up work session.
* **Seek Support:** The OSC will reach out to Intersect for additional resources or support if they struggle to deliver on the ambitious program workload.

| Topic                               | Discussion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ----------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Developer Advocates Update          | Uche provided an update on the DevX website (devx.inctmbbo.org), syncing working group sessions to the site, and successful community onboarding efforts, including a success story of a member joining Discord and gaining Intersect membership via the README.              | Uche also noted work is starting on improving the feedback form and developer experience survey.                                                                                                               |
| Procurement Status                  | Gemma gave a status recap on the 10 programs under the OSC Treasury proposal. Five Statements of Work (SOWs) are signed off: Developer Advocates, Travel, Bug Bounty, Tooling Sustainability, and Security Incident Manager.                                                  | Status recap provided by Gemma and Nick.                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Budget into USDM                    | Work is in progress with Finance, Christian, and Tex to move the budget from the Treasury Reserve contract into USDM. Metadata is being written to explain this move.                                                                                                         | The OSC must be kept informed and Jack (in SETD) is the ultimate sign-off.                                                                                                                                     |
| SOW Sharing & Visibility            | Gemma emphasized the importance of Elaine sharing signed SOWs and relevant documents with the committee for endorsement before signing, and then sharing on the Intersect Knowledge Base for ecosystem visibility.                                                            | Elaine confirmed she will share the documents later today. Tex and Elaine confirmed their awareness of the 5 signed SOWs.                                                                                      |
| Milestone Delivery & Tracking       | Gemma noted the committee has many milestones imminently due. Tex is helping to fill out the acceptance forms. These forms need to be signed by Elaine and shared with the OSC.                                                                                               | Gemma advised collecting monthly evidence (e.g., from Developer Advocates) to prepare for quarterly Treasury milestone requests.                                                                               |
| Subcontracts for SOWs               | Following broad SOW sign-off, subcontracts are developed (e.g., for individual Dev Advocates). Gemma clarified that subsequent delivery and accountability for meeting deliverables is the OSC's responsibility.                                                              | Nick reiterated that Intersect is there to help the OSC succeed and ensure quality outcomes.                                                                                                                   |
| Program Ambition & Quality          | Nick stressed the need to deliver the ambitious 9-month program with high quality and measurable metrics to justify the use of treasury funds and avoid community criticism (optics).                                                                                         | Jonathan expressed concern that a "fear of response" has historically led to ill will, and suggested allowing the new programs to run first.                                                                   |
| Resource & Delivery Support         | Nick asked if the OSC has the resources to deliver all 10 programs. Jonathan suggested taking on another full-time OSO staff member. Nick acknowledged the need for more resources.                                                                                           | Tex is moving back into a dedicated Open Source role to help. Nick suggested potentially outsourcing programs to ecosystem partners or seeking help if the OSC is struggling.                                  |
| Management Tool Discussion          | Jonathan asked Nick and Gemma about using a tool like Andamio for managing milestones and deliverables, especially concerning the difficulty of processing many monthly payments (e.g., for the Maintainer Program).                                                          | Gemma is open to exploring a third-party platform like Andamio to facilitate payments based on submitted evidence.                                                                                             |
| Google Summer of Code Vendors       | Elaine asked the OSO team to discuss three potential vendors: MLABS, C#, and Newcast. Christian noted MLABS is focused on Latam, Europe, and US, while C# (partnering with Newcast for SME presence) proposes working with up to 20 universities in India for a lower budget. | Adam and Jonathan expressed concern that the large India-focused proposal significantly changes the scope from the traditional, well-understood Google Summer of Code model.                                   |
| Summer of Code Next Steps           | Elaine requested the MLABS and C# proposals be shared. Tex suggested the OSO team first review the proposals to ensure alignment with the program's desired outcome and then submit them for committee review.                                                                | Terence noted he could connect with the current leader of the Google Summer of Code program for review. A follow-up meeting will be scheduled on this topic.                                                   |
| Accelerator Program Vendors         | Christian outlined a program with three workshops (Open Source Software, Technical Validation, Market Fit/Mock Pitch Building). Connections to VCs are a priority.                                                                                                            | The open-source legal support vendor (Chinstrap Community) is an angel investor. A potential vendor (Fractal) was too costly for a short extension. The program aims to provide pre-funding training.          |
| Commercialization Utility Group     | Tex suggested ensuring additional OSC support for the Commercialization Utility Working Group and moving related discussions there to manage the meeting's time.                                                                                                              | This was a note to transition related topics.                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Meeting Cadence Change              | Terence proposed a revised meeting schedule for November and December, skipping the November 13th meeting due to the Cardano Summit.                                                                                                                                          | Elaine and Jonathan agreed to the proposed schedule: November 6th and 20th; December 4th, 11th, and 18th.                                                                                                      |
| New Incubation Projects             | Christian presented new projects (IOSIM, typed-protocols, Serdoc) from the IOG team applying for the incubation program. They have maintainers and require no additional funding from the program.                                                                            | Adam worried about Intersect being mandated to own and manage dependencies previously handled by IOG/Well-Typed, increasing future treasury maintenance asks. The program provides stewardship but no funding. |
| Maintainer Program (MRP) Next Steps | The meeting transitioned into an OSC work session for this topic, which Sebastian was leading.                                                                                                                                                                                | Main points for follow-up included scheduling candidate interviews. Tex formally closed the main public meeting.                                                                                               |
