# üôÉ (10/31/2024) Meeting Minutes

{% hint style="info" %}
The October 17th Meeting was held privately to finalize OSC Budget for Internal Review.&#x20;
{% endhint %}

## Attendees:&#x20;

* Christian Taylor (OSO Rep) [Christian Taylor](mailto:christian.taylor@intersectmbo.org)
* Sandip Pandey [sandip@dquadrant.com](mailto:sandip@dquadrant.com)
* Terence McCutcheon [Terence McCutcheon](mailto:terence.mccutcheon@intersectmbo.org)
* Alex Seregin [alexeusgr@gmail.com](mailto:alexeusgr@gmail.com)
* Adam Dean [adam@crypto2099.io](mailto:adam@crypto2099.io)
* Diane Mueller
* Seomon Register
* Johnathan Kelly
* Pedro Lucas
* Samuel Leathers
* Sebastian Pabon [ps.joan3@gmail.com](mailto:ps.joan3@gmail.com)

**Recording:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) ‚Äì 2024/10/31 07:52 CDT ‚Äì Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1qHxHpvVh0Pxc9SLSyFZWZyRAONq4zYmd/view?usp=sharing)

**Transcript:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) ‚Äì 2024/10/31 07:52 CDT ‚Äì Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZAeTv31g-uL2qkAKQCX4pVJXsdxKX8GUIjxAxDKAcCQ/edit?usp=sharing)

**Chat Transcript:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) ‚Äì 2024/10/31 07:52 CDT ‚Äì Chat](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1TJUeu4yvX8KM973jZCmOXDsnQtSUtvGk/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

**Christian:** Head of Open Source Office, Intersect Staff

**Tex:** Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary

**Sandip:** Dquadrant

**Adam:** Adam Dean, LLC, Co-Founder, DripDropz, LLC, CIP Editors, Intersect Maintainer

**Diane:** Diane Mueller, Director Research and Advisor Services, Bitergia

**Lucas:** 45B - Cardano Enablement, Onboarding end-users; Supporting cardano Projects;

**Sebastian:** Gimbalabs contributor, MeshJS contributor, Andamio platform co-founder

**Johnny:** Non-Custodial Co-Management SysOps Engineer (Tech Janitor) for 3 Mainnet Stake Pools. Cardano Keystone Wallet Ambassador.

**Moritz:** TBD&#x20;

**Nicolas:** TBD&#x20;

**Robin:** TBD&#x20;

## Agenda 10.31.24

* Review Current Priorities/Tasking of OSC
* OSC Candidates Onboarding
* Open Forum

**Decision: OSC Approved Budget Proposal Request 3.2M USD**

| Discussion Point             | Notes                                                                                                                                                                            | Actions: Responsible / Note                                                                                          |
| ---------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Welcome & Agenda Overview    | Terence opened the meeting, covering the agenda with a focus on onboarding, chair selection, and reviewing pipeline documents.                                                   | Members to drop in affiliations and conflict of interest.                                                            |
| Chair Selection              | Discussed appointing a chair and co-chair during this meeting, aiming for a resolution in a week if asynchronous participation is needed.                                        | Interim chair appointed (Sandip) until elections are finalized asynchronously. Election to conclude by next meeting. |
| Committee Structure & Roles  | Detailed committee roles and responsibilities, including meeting attendance and working group leadership. Discussed potential co-chair rotation every six months.                | Update committee roles to reflect Adam‚Äôs suggestion to clarify voting seats as ‚Äúseats‚Äù and not ‚Äúchairs.‚Äù             |
| Mission & Vision             | Reviewed open source mission statement and its alignment with Cardano‚Äôs governance.                                                                                              | Open GitBook page for member review.                                                                                 |
| Open Source Strategy & Goals | Reviewed the committee‚Äôs strategy pillars focusing on community engagement, governance, and technical sustainability. Discussed the 2024 achievements and areas for improvement. | <p>Incorporate top strategy goals into the charter. Gather feedback on additional pillars.</p><p><br></p>            |
| Community Feedback           | Need to revisit community feedback in the future to ensure alignment. Past feedback survey summarized and available in open source documents.                                    | <p>Schedule for another feedback cycle and update survey by mid-2025.</p><p><br></p>                                 |
| Maturity Survey              | Reviewed results from the 2024 open source maturity survey and objectives for 2025, noting a passing but low maturity score of 59.5.                                             | Expand participation in the next maturity survey to gain a larger sample size.                                       |
| Budget & Funding             | Outlined 2024-2025 budget structure with a 90/10 split, allocating 10% to the open source committee. Funding covers maintainers and projects.                                    | Finalize open source budget documents and prepare draft budget review for next committee meeting.                    |
| Project Lifecycle & Workflow | Presentation on the project support services workflow. Discussed onboarding, project incubation, and lifecycle phases.                                                           | <p>Finalize acceptance criteria for project onboarding.</p><p><br></p>                                               |
| Chair Nomination Process     | Process for chair nomination and election discussed; agreed to proceed with a two-week asynchronous nomination period.                                                           | Initiate nomination in both Slack and Discord; finalize vote in the next meeting.                                    |
| Legal Considerations         | Discussed implications of geopolitical conflicts on participation eligibility, especially in light of recent Linux Foundation actions regarding Russian maintainers.             | <p>Coordinate with legal for clarity on maintainers‚Äô eligibility requirements.</p><p><br></p>                        |
| Meeting Cadence              | Proposed bi-weekly meetings with flexibility for additional meetings as needed.                                                                                                  | Set an ad-hoc meeting for next week, then revert to bi-weekly cadence.                                               |
| Communication Channels       | Outlined committee‚Äôs use of Slack and Discord for meeting notifications and member engagement.                                                                                   | <p>Ensure all members are notified of meetings in both Slack and Discord.</p><p><br></p>                             |
| Charter Update               | Reviewed charter structure, roles, responsibilities, and goals for the committee‚Äôs updated remit.                                                                                | <p>Draft and share updated charter for feedback.</p><p><br></p>                                                      |
| Community Participation      | Encouraged members to engage in future community feedback and open source documentation efforts.                                                                                 | Share contribution ladder and incubation program draft for committee feedback.                                       |
| Closing Remarks              | Reminder of next week‚Äôs ad-hoc meeting and bi-weekly cadence afterward.                                                                                                          | Schedule next meeting and notify members.                                                                            |
