# ðŸ˜› (11/14/2024) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name                     | Role        | Voting Seat (Y/N) |
| ------------------------ | ----------- | ----------------- |
| P. Lucas                 | Chair       | Y                 |
| Adam Dean                | Vice Chair  | Y                 |
| Terence â€˜Texâ€™ McCutcheon | Secretary   | N                 |
| Christian Taylor         | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Sandip Pandey            | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Diane Mueller   DNA      | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Jonathan Kelly           | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Sebastian Pabon          | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Moritz Angermann         | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Robin BÃ¶ning             | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Nicolas Henin            | Member/Seat | Y                 |

Community/Other Attendees

* Alex Seregin
* Jingles K
* Udai Solanki

**Recording:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2024/11/14 07:57 CST - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1V-pznJYVZPKsyTU-P9kyPU11QCSTqbn1/view?usp=sharing)

**Transcript:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2024/11/14 07:57 CST - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FOJPGBGJFR-IyuXX5wuQfYuUmo_cxVkH0bokbnf5vIk/edit?usp=sharing)

**Chat Transcript:** [Open Source Committee Meeting â€“ 2024/11/14 â€“ Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Vb7gpfJyeSksKPhe8Aflg4TnFOGlu3OW/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

**Christian:** Head of Open Source Office, Intersect Staff

**Tex:** Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary

**Sandip:** Dquadrant

**Adam:** Adam Dean, LLC, Co-Founder, DripDropz, LLC, CIP Editors, Intersect Maintainer

**Diane:** Diane Mueller, Director Research and Advisor Services, Bitergia

**Lucas:** 45B - Cardano Enablement, Onboarding end-users; Supporting cardano Projects;

**Sebastian:** Gimbalabs contributor, MeshJS contributor, Andamio platform co-founder

**Johnny:** Non-Custodial Co-Management SysOps Engineer (Tech Janitor) for 3 Mainnet Stake Pools. Cardano Keystone Wallet Ambassador.

**Moritz:** Platform Engineer, IOE

**Nicolas:** Technical Architect at IOG (Innovation R\&D)

**Robin:** TBD&#x20;

## Agenda 11.14.24

**Old Business**

* Finalize Charter Draft
* Confirm Meeting Cadence EOY
* Budget Questions/Concerns
* Budget Approval
* Legal Restrictions - Developers

**New Business**

* Begin Tooling Discussion
* Contribution Ladder Review
* Project Incubation - Acceptance Criteria
* AOB - Any Other Business

## Decisions/Actions

* **Decision:** Schedule tentative meeting for 12/19 **Action:** Terence to schedule the Meeting&#x20;
* **Decision:** Create clear pathways for open-source projects to come under Intersect **Action:** Consensus agreement to focus on this in 2025
* **Decision:** Prioritize Charter and other Document review. **Action:** Committee members to devote time asynchronously to review assigned docs.&#x20;

| Discussion Point                            | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Actions: Responsible / Note                                                                                                                              |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Quorum and Introductions                    | <p>- Meeting quorum confirmed; Robin noted leaving early.</p><p>- Lucas, recently elected as Chair, welcomed participants.</p>                                                                                                                                                              | - Attendees reminded to declare affiliations and conflicts of interest.                                                                                  |
| Review of Previous Minutes                  | <p>- Previous minutes made available for asynchronous review.</p><p>- No immediate concerns raised.</p>                                                                                                                                                                                     | - Terence to upload and circulate minutes for review.                                                                                                    |
| Charter Draft Finalization                  | <p>- Reviewed sections on responsibilities, voting policy, and inclusion of open source ecosystem maintenance.</p><p>- Debate over the phrasing of committee goals vs. values.</p><p>- Consensus to focus on promoting openness and composability rather than specific ecosystem tools.</p> | - Committee members to review Charter asynchronously and provide feedback by Dec 12.                                                                     |
| Meeting Cadence                             | <p>- Proposed meeting on Dec 19, 2024, to finalize pending items.</p><p>- Agreement to hold Dec 19 meeting unless all business is resolved by Dec 12.</p>                                                                                                                                   | <p>- Schedule Dec 19 meeting as tentative.</p><p>- Confirm final decision by Dec 12 meeting.</p>                                                         |
| Budget Review                               | <p>- Budget concerns focused on public transparency and how the education and outreach bucket would be administered.</p><p>- Possibility of budget moving under MCC.</p>                                                                                                                    | <p>- Terence to confirm details with MCC and share updates with the committee.</p><p>- Plan for a public AMA or call to address budget transparency.</p> |
| Legal Restrictions Update                   | <p>- Ongoing discussions about compliance with FATF and Wyoming OFAC standards.</p><p>- Legal clarity pending further review of the membership agreement.</p>                                                                                                                               | - Christian to follow up and report updates once consensus is reached.                                                                                   |
| Contribution Ladder and Acceptance Criteria | <p>- Explainer videos and documents for contribution ladder and project incubation acceptance criteria shared.</p><p>- Discussions centered on defining criteria for project maintainers and funding eligibility.</p>                                                                       | <p>- Members encouraged to review explainer videos and documents.</p><p>- Provide comments and feedback asynchronously.</p>                              |
| Partner Chains                              | <p>- Discussed removal of "partner chains" terminology in the Cardano constitution.</p><p>- Agreement to emphasize promoting openness and composability over specific references to partner chains.</p><p>- Updates shared regarding Midnightâ€™s roadmap toward open source practices.</p>   | <p>- Lucas to draft and share revised language for review.</p><p>- Monitor Midnightâ€™s open source progress and provide updates.</p>                      |
| Tooling Discussion                          | <p>- Exploration of managing external projects critical to the ecosystem, such as Lucid.</p><p>- Consensus to create clear pathways for external projects to transition to community maintainership and align with open source principles.</p>                                              | - Continue tooling discussions in 2024 for defining pathways and support mechanisms.                                                                     |
| Future Planning                             | - Agreed to prioritize finalizing the charter, contribution ladder, and acceptance criteria by end of year.                                                                                                                                                                                 | - Members to allocate time for review and feedback asynchronously over the next three weeks.                                                             |
