# ðŸŽ… (12/18/2025) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

<table data-header-hidden><thead><tr><th width="229.6640625"></th><th align="center"></th><th width="106.5955810546875"></th><th width="158.25439453125" align="center"></th><th></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Name</td><td align="center">Attendance</td><td>Role</td><td align="center">Voting Seat (Y/N)</td><td>Term</td></tr><tr><td>Elaine Cardenas</td><td align="center">No</td><td>Chair</td><td align="center">Y</td><td>April 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Terence â€˜Texâ€™ McCutcheon</td><td align="center">Yes</td><td>Secretary</td><td align="center">N</td><td>N/A</td></tr><tr><td>Christian Taylor</td><td align="center">Yes</td><td>SME</td><td align="center">N</td><td>N/A</td></tr><tr><td>Arnaud Bailly</td><td align="center">No</td><td>Member</td><td align="center">Y</td><td>April 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Bernard Sibanda</td><td align="center">Yes</td><td>Member</td><td align="center">Y</td><td>October 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Georg Link  </td><td align="center">Yes</td><td>Member</td><td align="center">Y</td><td>April 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Jordan Hill</td><td align="center">Yes</td><td>Member</td><td align="center">Y</td><td>October 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Philip DiSarro</td><td align="center">No</td><td>Member</td><td align="center">Y</td><td>April 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Sebastian Pabon</td><td align="center">Yes</td><td>Member</td><td align="center">Y</td><td>October 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Reshma Mohan</td><td align="center">Yes</td><td>Member</td><td align="center">Y</td><td>October 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Udai Solanki</td><td align="center">No</td><td>Member</td><td align="center">Y</td><td>October 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Empty Seat</td><td align="center">No</td><td>Member</td><td align="center">Y</td><td>April 2026</td></tr></tbody></table>

Community/Other Attendees

* Ben Hart
* Harun Mwangi
* Uche Obasi



**Recording:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/12/18 - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1CwMxz_QnGK8vtw43tPG4OZUYTe_k9-sa/view?usp=sharing)

**Transcript:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/12/18 - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SGkSJaDDlGw-A4Nny-sUMFKtLVcgd9jaIMaS8aMER0o/edit?usp=sharing)

**Chat Transcript:** [Open Source Committee Meeting â€“ 2025/12/18 â€“ Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1r9E8axsXWStvzTmPaMrfWSe8YXC18soP/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

**Christian:** Head of Open Source Office, Intersect, OS SME\
**Tex:** Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary\
**Arnaud:** OSC Member, CF\
**Bernard:** TBD\
**Elaine:** OSC Chair, Aira corporation CTO\
**Georg:** Bitergia\
**Jordan:** TBD\
**Reshma:** TBD\
**Sebastian:** OSC, Gimbalabs, contributor, Andamio co-founder.\
**Philip:** TBD

## Agenda 12.18.25

* Developer Advocate Update
* Committee Member Statuses
* CM Participation
* DA MAF
* ClickUp Review
* POSM Program Updates
  * Q1 Timelines
* Q\&A/Open Forum

## Decisions/Actions

Decisions

* **DA Rotation Strategy:** The committee agreed to rotate Developer Advocate pairings each quarter for the Developer Experience working groups to ensure fresh perspectives.
* **Annual Review Cadence:** Reviews for the Open Source Office staff by committee members will be conducted on an annual basis, specifically around April or May.
* **Travel Fee Reimbursement:** For the current instance, the committee decided to cover the additional transaction fees incurred during a travel reimbursement, as there was sufficient room in the budget.
* **Program Postponements:** Official selection for the Maintainer Retainer program was formally pushed to January 30, 2025, and Tooling Sustainability project selections were moved to mid-February.
* **Summer of Code:** It was decided that unused funds from the Summer of Code program will be signed off and returned to the treasury in January.

Actions

* **All Committee Members:**&#x20;
  * Schedule a 30-minute kickoff meeting with Terence via his calendar link within the first two weeks of January.
  * Review the Developer Advocate milestones currently in the "Review" column in ClickUp and provide feedback or comments.
  * Submit any planned events or travel requests for Q1 2026 using the OSC Events Travel Form in ClickUp.
* **Terence:**&#x20;
  * Finalize the "Tooling Sustainability" scope by the end of the week.
  * Draft the Developer Advocate Q4 report and the contract for the Accelerator program by the end of January.
  * Add the "DA/Maintainer Retainer Policy" to the first agenda of 2026 for a final decision.
* **Bernard:** Take the lead on collecting feedback from Developer Advocates regarding their 2025 challenges and experiences to help guide the committee in Q1.
* **Christian/Terence:** Finalize the Security Incident Manager hiring process following the interviews on December 18th and 19th.

| Topic                             | Discussion                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Notes                                                                                                     |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Welcome & Meeting Context         | Terence opened the final meeting of 2025. He noted that Elaine is currently overloaded, so the Open Source Office (OSO) will provide additional support.                                                                     | The next committee review cycle of the OSO is tentatively scheduled for April/May 2026.                   |
| Developer Advocate (DA) Q1 Update | Harun reported that all Q1 milestones have been met by the DAs. He highlighted team cohesion and effective communication via WhatsApp as major successes.                                                                    | Uche expressed appreciation for the collaborative structure of the program.                               |
| DA Working Group Rotations        | Terence proposed rotating DA pairs for the Developer Experience working groups each quarter to keep perspectives fresh.                                                                                                      | Committee members are encouraged to monitor the DA internal channel for updates.                          |
| Member Contributions & Feedback   | Members shared their current focuses: Georg (Maintainer Retainer dashboard), Sebastian (Sustainability group/interviews), Reshma (Technical doc reviews), Jordan (Tooling/promotions), and Bernard (DA focus/Emergo assets). | Reshma noted a preference for technical document review over live verbal discussions.                     |
| Individual Check-ins              | Terence proposed weekly 15-minute 1-on-1 check-ins starting in January to help align individual members with committee goals and clear blockers.                                                                             | Members are to book a 30-minute kickoff session via Terenceâ€™s calendar for the first two weeks of Jan.    |
| Milestone Acceptance Process      | Terence demonstrated the ClickUp dashboard used for DA milestones. He requested committee input on whether acceptance criteria are being met.                                                                                | Christian reminded the group that as these are taxpayer-funded, reviews must ensure money is well spent.  |
| Maintainer Retainer Program       | The selection timeline has been extended to January 30th. Additional social media outreach is needed to attract more applicants.                                                                                             | A contract with Andamio is pending for the onboarding platform.                                           |
| Dual Roles (DA as Maintainers)    | A discussion was held on whether DAs can apply for the Maintainer Retainer program. Concerns regarding "double-dipping" vs. ecosystem synergy were raised.                                                                   | Decision Tabled: Members will revisit this in 2026 to decide on a formal policy.                          |
| Tooling Sustainability            | Selection process milestones moved to late January/mid-February. Five tooling projects are expected to be accepted by mid-February.                                                                                          | The Tooling Working Group will go on hiatus over the holiday break.                                       |
| Bug Bounty & Code for Us          | The contract for TX Pipe was sent for signature (Jan 5 â€“ March 5 timeline). This involves developing changes to the GitHoney tooling.                                                                                        | These programs will integrate once the two-month development period concludes.                            |
| Security Incident Manager         | Interviews for this position are occurring this week. The role will involve shared management between the Committee and Intersect.                                                                                           | A final decision/update is expected in early 2026.                                                        |
| Travel & Events Budget            | Members must submit Q1 event requests via the ClickUp travel form. A discussion occurred regarding whether the committee should cover transaction fees for reimbursements.                                                   | Status: Transaction fees were covered this time as the budget allowed and the threshold was not exceeded. |
| Partnerships in 2026              | Bernard inquired about the status of open-source partnerships, specifically in Africa. Terence clarified this is an OSO function but intersects with DA milestones.                                                          | A separate work session on partnership initiatives will be scheduled for 2026.                            |
