# ðŸ˜› (05/29/2025) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name                     | Attendance | Role        | Voting Seat (Y/N) |
| ------------------------ | ---------- | ----------- | ----------------- |
| P. Lucas                 | Yes        | Chair       | Y                 |
| Adam Dean                | Yes        | Vice Chair  | Y                 |
| Terence â€˜Texâ€™ McCutcheon | Yes        | Secretary   | N                 |
| Christian Taylor         | Yes        | SME         | N                 |
| Arnaud Bailly            | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Elaine Cardenas          | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Georg Link               | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Jonathan Kelly           | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Niels MÃ¼ndler            | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Sebastian Pabon          | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |
| Philip DiSarro           | Yes        | Member/Seat | Y                 |

<br>

Community/Other Attendees

* Alex Seregin
* Jordan Hill
* Kelly Muhindi
* Sandip Pandey
* Udai Solanki

**Recording:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/05/29 - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ebTA52z4A1AjXynlfnGw048eijOlf8Ro/view?usp=sharing)

**Transcript:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/05/29 - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19xP8V44acs3Hoy4nBiOn7uE1WWtG4By5QSnsv3x5EWo/edit?usp=sharing)

**Chat Transcript:** [Open Source Committee Meeting â€“ 2025/05/29 â€“ Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1FXlA-K6A7iqUDAyuEYuKu-gdHaKoQt9P/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

**Christian:** Head of Open Source Office, Intersect, OS SME\
**Tex:** Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary\
**Adam:** OSC, TSC Intersect, CIP Editors, DripDropz, LLC\
**Arnaud:** newly elected OSC, CF, Hydra/Mithril/Peras/Leios/stuff\
**Elaine:** newly elected OSC, Aira corporation CTO\
**Georg:** Bitergia\
**Johnny:** Non-Custodial Co-Management SysOps Engineer (Tech Janitor) for 3 Mainnet Cardano SPO Clients. Keystone Ambassador. Voting Seat Member on Technical Steering Committee and Open Source Committee.\
**Lucas:** OSC Chair, 45B.io(SMB onboarding)\
**Niels:** tbd\
**Sebastian:** OSC, Gimbalabs, contributor, Andamio co-founder.\
**Philip:** tbd

## Agenda 5.29.25

* Recap & Check-in from Seats
* Developer Advocate Program
* Co-Chair Election Prep
* Desired order of work
* AOB/Open Forum
* Lucas - GovTool builders meeting

## Decisions/Actions

* No formal decisions in this meeting.

| Topic                                          | Discussion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Action Items                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| ---------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Commercialization Working Group & Meeting Time | Christian will finally be able to attend the commercialization working group. He is considering moving the commercialization meeting time earlier to improve attendance, which Elaine supports.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Christian to follow up with Chris regarding attendance and potential meeting time changes.                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| Open Source Strategy Document                  | The Open Source Strategy document needs progress. There are five goals, and the timelines for these goals should be reassessed to be more achievable over a longer period. Accomplished items should be removed, and remaining items reprioritized.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | All members to review the Open Source Strategy document, leave comments, and suggest reorganizations and changes to goals/timelines.                                                                                                                                         |
| Committee Purpose and Mandate                  | Adam raised concerns about the committee's purpose and mandate, feeling that there hasn't been much substantial work or consensus-driven votes due to lack of funding.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Christian to outline frameworks for paid open source model, allocation guidelines, and tooling working group setup, seeking committee consensus.                                                                                                                             |
| Paid Open Source Model & Funding               | The committee needs to establish frameworks, guidelines, and consensus for allocating funding for the paid open source model once it's unlocked. Also need to set up the tooling working group and define its charter.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Christian to work on frameworks and guidelines for funding allocation.                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Developer Advocate Program                     | Terence is targeting an application start date of June 16th to June 30th for the Developer Advocate program, with selection in July and a hopeful start date of August 4th for a 9-month term. Individual sessions are scheduled for the next 8 weeks to prepare the program.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Elaine to participate in Developer Advocate program meetings. Udai to send synopsis of Cardano India developer workshop to Terence for potential inclusion in the weekly report.                                                                                             |
| Developer Experience Working Group             | Udai and Alex, and Bernard and Suga, continue to host weekly Developer Experience Working Group calls.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | <p><br></p>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Cardano India Developer Session                | Udai reported on a successful workshop for Cardano India developers on mass.js SDK, attended by 34 developers, 20 of whom are actively working on Cardano.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Udai to send synopsis of the session to Terence for potential highlighting.                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Chair Election Prep                            | The committee needs to nominate a co-chair who would ideally take over the chair role in October. The co-chair would co-facilitate meetings and learn the role. If no consensus today, nominations will be gathered via Discord.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Interested members to express interest in the co-chair position via Discord.                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| Co-Chair Role & Responsibilities               | Pedro Lucas is willing to continue facilitating but would benefit from a co-chair, especially when unable to attend. The co-chair would help set the agenda for the new 30-minute weekly meeting, which is now open to all members for discussion and idea sharing.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | <p><br></p>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Miro Board for Ideas/Issues                    | A Miro board is available for members to add ideas, issues under discussion, and committee focus areas.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | All members to utilize the Miro board to contribute ideas and track discussions.                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| Evangelism Efforts                             | Elaine is interested in working on the commercialization working group and evangelism projects, seeking guidance and historical information on projects built on Cardano. Christian is working on onboarding mechanisms, education catalogs, user journey stories, and a "Hitchhiker's Guide to Cardano." Adam shared insights on tailoring evangelism based on audience (developers, users, investors) and being mindful of information disclosure. Sebastian discussed balancing technical scenarios, large events, and academic/community events for evangelism, and the need to measure effectiveness. | Christian to expand evangelism strategies and work on the "Hitchhiker's Guide to Cardano." Christian and Pedro Lucas to find partners to assist Elaine with evangelism efforts. Elaine to consider collecting historical information on Cardano projects for outreach focus. |
| Google Summer of Code                          | The Google Summer of Code program is in the budget. Georg Link offered to help pioneer this effort, explaining the application process, need for mentors and project scoping, and community engagement.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Christian to discuss Google Summer of Code with Robin and other interested parties. Georg Link to provide guidance on the Google Summer of Code program.                                                                                                                     |
| Governance Tool Builders Call                  | Pedro Lucas hosted a call with governance tool builders to address fragmentation of features across different tools, aiming for collaboration and potential sharing of components to improve user experience. Elaine emphasized the high priority of this initiative, especially given the lack of funding for some governance tools, and the need for continued follow-up. Georg Link noted that feature fragmentation is part of open source innovation but collaboration is beneficial.                                                                                                                 | Pedro Lucas to promote a follow-up call for governance tool builders and continue to gather feedback on the initiative.                                                                                                                                                      |
| Tentative Work Session                         | Christian proposed an optional work session next week (same time) to accelerate getting frameworks and drafts ready for quick decisions and to establish operating rules and leadership for new initiatives.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Christian to schedule and announce a tentative optional work session for next week. Christian to continue communication on internal chat for work items.                                                                                                                     |
