# ðŸ˜Ž (10/16/2025) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name                     | Attendance | Role      | Voting Seat (Y/N) | Term         |
| ------------------------ | ---------- | --------- | ----------------- | ------------ |
| Elaine Cardenas          | Yes        | Chair     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Terence â€˜Texâ€™ McCutcheon | Yes        | Secretary | N                 | N/A          |
| Christian Taylor         | Yes        | SME       | N                 | N/A          |
| P. Lucas                 | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | October 2025 |
| Adam Dean                | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | October 2025 |
| Arnaud Bailly            | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Georg Link               | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Jonathan Kelly           | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | October 2025 |
| Sebastian Pabon          | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | October 2025 |
| Philip DiSarro           | No         | Member    | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Empty Seat               | No         | Member    | Y                 | April 2026   |

Community/Other Attendees

* Andrew Aitken
* Emmanuel Titi
* Harun Mwangi
* Jordan Hill
* Minh Bui
* Uche Obasi



**Recording:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/10/16 - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1DIvdbWWr8VfEGOoIhhn924rZ8NN-FunH/view?usp=sharing)

**Transcript:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/10/16 - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15j5WI4s-bTwRpG2VcXpj7g4wNRLK8heY9aaZ02KXI5I/edit?usp=sharing)

**Chat Transcript:** [Open Source Committee Meeting â€“ 2025/10/16 â€“ Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Rbeyd9ibYZ0bCVWaF9fhHWGeGUvf8W5K/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

**Christian:** Head of Open Source Office, Intersect, OS SME\
**Tex:** Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary\
**Adam:** OSC, TSC Intersect, CIP Editors, DripDropz, LLC\
**Arnaud:** OSC Member, CF\
**Elaine:** OSC Chair, Aira corporation CTO\
**Georg:** Bitergia\
**Johnny:** Non-Custodial Co-Management SysOps Engineer (Tech Janitor) for 3 Mainnet Cardano SPO Clients. Keystone Ambassador. Voting Seat Member on Technical Steering Committee and Open Source Committee.\
**Lucas:** 45B.io(SMB onboarding)\
**Sebastian:** OSC, Gimbalabs, contributor, Andamio co-founder.\
**Philip:** tbd&#x20;

## Agenda 10.16.25

* Developer Advocate Update - Tyty
* Meeting Participation Expectations
* Committee Elections
* Review OSC GitBook - Approval Request
* Andamio for MRP - Decision
* AI Policy - WG Charter Draft
* Accelerator Program Updates
* CSOC Review
* Program Update preferences
* Smart Contract Auditing WG

## Decisions/Actions

![](<../../../.gitbook/assets/unknown (1) (1) (1).png>)\
[Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/10/16 07:56 CDT - Polls](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1lq-FgalwpdaTpJtMy5rQybDiM8YDS1581AT7-LMlekE/edit?usp=sharing)

Decisions

* **Accelerator Program Concept:** Approved the new concept for the Accelerator Program, restructuring it as a series of educational workshops (Commercial Open Source Software, Investor Pitch/Fundraising, Technical Product Review) to replace the venture capital program model.
* **AI Policy Working Group:** Confirmed the approval of the motion to establish an AI Working Group to draft policy on AI usage in Cardano open source.
* **Smart Contract Auditing Working Group:** Approved the creation of a thread (as opposed to a full channel) in Discord for a new working group dedicated to establishing official standards for smart contract auditing.
* **Andamio for Gitbook Documents:** Approved the vote related to Andamio for the Gitbook documents.

#### Actions

* **Jordan Hill:** Follow up on the opportunity to apply to be a member of the committee.
* **Lucas:** Adapt the existing questions about Andamio into a more formal requirements document to clearly outline the OSC's needs for the Maintainer Retainer Program (MRP) tool.
* **Committee Members:** Review the OSC Gitbook, particularly the Paid Open Source Model (POM) Scoped Items, asynchronously.
* **Committee Members:** Review the 10 general topics Christian posted for the AI Policy draft and nominate three priority topics for the working group to focus on initially.
* **Committee Members:** Reach out to contacts and write recommendations for suitable individuals to run for the OSC election before the October 24th deadline.
* **Committee Members:** Provide feedback to Terence on their preferred method for receiving updates about program progress (budget, contracts, etc.) and how the committee should publicize program updates to the community.
* **Terence McCutcheon:** Coordinate and schedule focused X Spaces next week to promote the committee elections.
* **Christian Taylor:** Continue scoping the details of the new Accelerator Program workshop model, find potential vendors, and bring the final proposals back to the committee.
* **Christian Taylor:** Gather and review the proposals from MLABS and Shear Corner (Mahesh) for the Cardano Summer of Code and prepare them for a committee vote.
* **Elaine Cardenas (Chair):** Actively call on committee members for their opinions and contributions during discussions, and guide the asynchronous discussion/vote on the full scope of Andamio for MRP and the remaining Gitbook changes.

| Topic                                    | Discussion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| ---------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Welcome/Quorum Check                     | Terence noted that the meeting was waiting on the Chair, and upon their arrival, quorum was met.                                                                                                                                                                                        | Jonathan mentioned he was available until the door "knocks."                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| Developer Advocate Committee Opportunity | Terence offered Jordan an opportunity to apply to be on the committee.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Jordan expressed interest and said he would look into it.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Meeting Kick-off and Agenda Overview     | Terence announced the meeting would begin with an update from the Developer Advocates, followed by an overview of participation expectations, committee elections, the Gitbook, and other detailed topics.                                                                              | Elaine confirmed she was ready to take over as Chair.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Developer Advocate Update                | Elaine requested an update from the Developer Advocates, a topic missed in the previous session. Emmanuel presented the plan for the first quarter focusing on onboarding new participants to Cardano and Intersect open source.                                                        | The plan includes documenting a path for newcomers, creating lessons through a working group, teaching practical skills (e.g., running a node, using SDKs), highlighting contributor paths, and improving core documentation.                                                |
| Developer Advocate Q\&A                  | Lucas asked Emmanuel about reviewing the previous cohort's work and strategies for ensuring attendance at the new sessions.                                                                                                                                                             | Emmanuel clarified the current cohort is laying a missing foundational documentation path for beginners, which will build on the high-level work of previous advocates. He noted efforts to recruit participants, especially in Africa, and through university partnerships. |
| Developer Advocate Tracking              | Terence mentioned there is an open project board to track the Developer Advocates' milestones.                                                                                                                                                                                          | Terence explained the "start from scratch" feeling is due to a lack of formal structure for community involvement in previous meetings, emphasizing that community involvement is the new cohort's focus.                                                                    |
| Guest Speakers/Lurkers                   | Elaine asked if any guests intended to speak, to manage time. Andrew (guest) stated he was mostly a "lurker and learner" but offered to share his 20+ years of open source community experience with Emmanuel. Minh (guest) and Jordan (guest) were also present to listen and support. | Minh asked about accessing the materials (Gitbook, etc.), which Elaine confirmed would be covered.                                                                                                                                                                           |
| Meeting Participation Expectations       | Elaine discussed the need for better use of time and committee member contributions. Changes include adding more space between agenda items and the Chair (Elaine will actively call on members with relevant expertise).                                                               | Elaine also mentioned the upcoming ISC requirement for monthly contribution summaries (reporting) to receive stipends. Terence and Christian were asked to be more reserved in meetings to encourage committee discussion/voting.                                            |
| Committee Elections & Status             | Elaine urged committee members to encourage more candidates to apply for the OSC election by the October 24th deadline, noting only four candidates so far.                                                                                                                             | Terence offered to schedule focused X spaces (Tues/Wed/Thurs next week) to market the OSC and encouraged members to participate.                                                                                                                                             |
| OSC Gitbook & Andamio for MRP            | Terence noted that due to a loss of quorum, motions regarding the Gitbook changes and the use of Andamio for the Maintainer Retainer Program (MRP) must be moved to asynchronous voting.                                                                                                | Elaine asked Terence to share the Gitbook link and encouraged members (especially Minh) to read the Paid Open Source Model (POSM) Scoped Items.                                                                                                                              |
| Andamio for MRP Discussion               | Elaine asked for the committee's opinion on Andamio for MRP, expressing a positive outlook. Lucas noted the platform looks mature but requested a formal requirements document from the committee's side to ensure it's fit for purpose.                                                | Terence clarified the previous questions to the Andamio team were meant to suffice as requirements, stating it is the committee's responsibility to provide further requirements if needed. Lucas offered to adapt the existing questions.                                   |
| AI Policy Draft Working Group            | Elaine confirmed the formal motion to launch an AI Working Group has passed. Christian explained the goal is to draft a policy for AI usage in Cardano open source, focusing on governance, licensing, and security.                                                                    | Christian asked members to review 10 general topics he posted in the internal channel and nominate three to prioritize for the initial policy draft. Elaine suggested a guideline against using AI as the sole reviewer for Pull Requests (PRs).                             |
| Accelerator Program Updates              | Christian presented an update on the proposed Accelerator Program, now structured as a series of educational workshops focusing on commercial open source business, fundraising, and technical product review.                                                                          | Christian requested a vote to approve this concept to begin finding vendors (the program is separate from the $50k Accelerator funding). The motion was approved unanimously.                                                                                                |
| Cardano Summer of Code (CSC)             | Christian provided an update on the CSC, noting a proposal from MLABS and an offer from Mahesh (C-Sharp) to incorporate 20-25 universities in India for potentially half the budget.                                                                                                    | Jonathan opposed making the program Haskell-focused, arguing it might turn people away, favoring a focus on more accessible languages for onboarding. Sebastian mentioned TX5's new resource, TX3, for explaining the UTXO model to developers.                              |
| Smart Contract Auditing Working Group    | Christian and Jonathan raised the need for a working group to address the lack of standardization for smart contract auditing on Cardano. A consortium of auditors wants to establish official standards and reference points for different audit levels.                               | The committee voted to establish a thread (not a full channel) in the Discord for this new working group. The motion was approved unanimously.                                                                                                                               |
| Program Update Preferences               | Terence asked the committee how they would prefer to be updated on program progress (contracts, budget, SOW), and how the committee should go about publicizing program updates to the community.                                                                                       | Elaine encouraged all members to provide feedback on this, especially those who are time-limited.                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Next Steps/Closing                       | Elaine quickly summarized all topics covered. The final poll results were announced by Terence, confirming all four motions were approved unanimously (Andamio for Gitbook documents, Accelerator Program changes, and Smart Contract Auditing Working Group).                          | The meeting was adjourned.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
