# ðŸ˜Ž (12/04/2025) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name                     | Attendance | Role      | Voting Seat (Y/N) | Term         |
| ------------------------ | ---------- | --------- | ----------------- | ------------ |
| Elaine Cardenas          | Yes        | Chair     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Terence â€˜Texâ€™ McCutcheon | Yes        | Secretary | N                 | N/A          |
| Christian Taylor         | Yes        | SME       | N                 | N/A          |
| Arnaud Bailly            | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Bernard Sibanda          | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Georg Link               | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Jordan Hill              | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Philip DiSarro           | No         | Member    | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Sebastian Pabon          | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Reshma Mohan             | No         | Member    | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Udai Solanki             | No         | Member    | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Empty Seat               | No         | Member    | Y                 | April 2026   |

Community/Other Attendees

* Dan Baruka
* Emmanuel Titi
* Uche Obasi



**Recording:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/12/04 - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1zD4olh7Tl_XnlZnGIzFizVvwKs8NXLaU/view?usp=sharing)

**Transcript:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/12/04 - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VGZyzOzTDNDhutELOuix3SmIOMcbUO1E6My7XJueRXQ/edit?usp=sharing)

**Chat Transcript:** [Open Source Committee Meeting â€“ 2025/12/04 â€“ Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1pdW_4FD4WEJrbWpsq0CL1HbZzi87wIGq/view?usp=sharing)

**Polls:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2025/12/04 - Polls](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18eRf7_pdQM02JLVbqThETplcoN86gnZBQg29iChcxUM/edit?usp=sharing)

## Intros

**Christian:** Head of Open Source Office, Incubation, Intersect, OS SME\
**Tex:** Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary\
**Arnaud:** OSC Member, CF\
**Bernard:** TBD\
**Elaine:** newly elected OSC, Aira corporation CTO\
**Georg:** voting member of OSC - Bitergia/CHAOSS\
**Jordan:** TBD\
**Reshma:** TBD\
**Sebastian:** Andamio, OSC voting member\
**Philip:** TBD

## Agenda 12.04.25

* Developer Advocate Check-In
* AI Policy WG Closure
* Smart Contract Auditing WG
* MRP Interviews (endorsement)
* ClickUp Onboarding/Training
* POSM Contract Updates
* POSM Program Assignment
* EMURGO Academy (opinions on how to OS)
* Open Forum

## Decisions/Actions

Decisions

* **AI Policy Working Group Closure:** The AI Policy Working Group was closed due to inactivity, with the provision that it can be reopened later.
* **Smart Contract Working Group Status:** It was decided not to close the Smart Contract Working Group, as Elaine volunteered to lead the effort to stand up a standards body.
* **Maintainer Retainer Candidate Acceptance:** Four candidates who had completed the initial interviews were accepted and moved forward to the Project Team Interview stage.
* **Maintainer Retainer Founder Track Process:** The requirement for a Project Team Interview was excluded for founders of community projects applying via the founder track, streamlining their process.&#x20;

Actions

* **Summit Access Follow-up:** Terence will provide Elaine with more information regarding her summit access either later that day or by Monday.
* **Tooling CR Signature:** The Change Request (CR) for extending the tooling milestone due dates is pending signature by Terence and Elaine.
* **DA Program Review:** All committee members are to review the Developer Advocate (DA) submissions in the GitHub OCTSSC review section and provide qualitative feedback.
* **Program Team Organization:** The newly assigned program owners (e.g., Jordan for Tooling, Georg for Maintainer Retainer, Sebastian for Accelerator) are to self-organize and coordinate offline to provide program updates at the next session.
* **ClickUp Training/Use:** Committee members are encouraged to actively use the ClickUp dashboard for collaboration, and Terence will provide additional training on updating milestone status and names.
* **Smart Contract Group Setup:** Elaine and Christian will work offline to formally set up the Smart Contract Working Group and secure attendees for the next session.
* **CIP Editor Body Briefing:** Christian will arrange for a representative from the SIP Editor Body to attend the next meeting to explain the need for support and discuss potential funding via the Maintainer Retainer Program.
* **EMURGO Academy Discovery:** Christian, Georg, Jordan, and Bernard will hold an offline discovery session to review the Emergo Academy assets and propose a plan for open-sourcing the material at the next meeting.
* **Tooling Working Group Quorum:** Jordan will work to formalize the member list and adjust the meeting time to ensure quorum for resolving outstanding questions.

Polls

![](<../../../.gitbook/assets/unknown (1).png>)

| Topic                                     | Discussion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| ----------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Initial Check-in & Summit Access          | Terence updated Elaine on her summit issue, noting access might be limited to the day of the event. Elaine explained this would be difficult due to her job's policy requiring advance notice for time off to attend conferences. Christian noted it is a three-day event, suggesting she might attend the 9th and 10th. Elaine also noted an issue with finding a previous email from Terence despite receiving a follow-up.                              | Terence to provide more information on summit access later today or by Monday. Terence asked Elaine to check her "isotope" email and mentioned he had asked for the original to be resent.           |
| Developer Advocate (DA) Program Updates   | Uche reported no major updates, focusing on ongoing work and compiling a Q4 analysis report. Emmanuel provided an overview of recent activities: a Contributor Workshop (100+ attendees), working group sessions with community builders, and facilitating the Cardano Africa Tech Summit Hackathon in Nairobi. Dan added that a 1:1 session led to the creation of a new developer hub in Zambia with over 44 members, with their first meetup next week. | The focus is on gathering data for the Q4 analysis report. Activities successfully included workshops, builder talks, and hackathon facilitation.                                                    |
| DA Program Review Process                 | Terence reminded the Open Source Committee (OSC) members to provide input on the DA program reviews. The submissions are located in the GitHub "open source office" repo under the "developer advocate program" project, in the OCTSSC review section.                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Committee members are urged to review submissions and provide detailed, qualitative feedback to assist with the Milestone Acceptance Form submission by December 19th.                               |
| Paid Open-Source Model Contract Status    | Terence reviewed the board statuses in ClickUp: Google Summer of Code is canceled; Security/Incident Management is signed but on hold; DA Program is on Milestone 4; Code Forest, Accelerator, and Project Support Services are in planning; Maintainer Retainer is in drafting; and Travel is on M3.                                                                                                                                                      | Terence offered to provide additional training on updating milestone statuses and names in ClickUp.                                                                                                  |
| Tooling Sustainability CR & Updates       | Terence presented a Change Request (CR) to the administrator to extend the milestone due dates for the Tooling Sustainability Program (M2.2, M2.3, M2.4) to December, January, and February, respectively. The change is due to funding delays and poor coordination. No changes were made to the milestones' scope or cost.                                                                                                                               | The CR is pending signature/vote. The due dates are extended to make them achievable.                                                                                                                |
| Tooling Working Group Membership          | Jordan, the new lead, noted uncertainty about group membership and the need for quorum to resolve lingering questions on milestone acceptance forms. Sebastian and Emmanuel confirmed their ongoing participation. Christian listed other members (Leonard, Rupert, Adam, Arno).                                                                                                                                                                           | Jordan will work to formalize the member list and find a workable meeting time, potentially pushing the 5 am PST time back by an hour or two.                                                        |
| ClickUp Board Training and Use            | Terence asked committee members for questions regarding ClickUp use. Elaine suggested a shared document for in-meeting collaboration. Terence clarified that the ClickUp task itself (with description, comments, and attachments) is meant to serve as the collaborative document.                                                                                                                                                                        | Committee members are encouraged to use the platform's features for collaborative, real-time updates and discussions on agenda items.                                                                |
| AI Policy Working Group Closure           | Terence proposed closing the AI Policy Working Group due to inactivity and lack of a lead. Christian noted time constraints on his end.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Decision: The AI Policy Working Group is officially closed. It can be reopened in the future if a dedicated lead is found.                                                                           |
| Smart Contract Working Group Future       | Christian proposed closing this group in one week if no one volunteers to lead the effort to stand up a standards body. Elaine volunteered to lead, despite her limited time. Christian noted over 13 people are willing to participate.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Decision: The group will NOT be closed. Elaine and Christian will work offline to formally set up the group and secure attendees for the following week.                                             |
| Maintainer Retainer Interview Acceptance  | Terence asked the committee to sign off on the recommendation to move four of the five interviewed candidates to the next stage. Christian confirmed this recommendation was made by himself and Johnny. Elaine abstained due to not having reviewed the candidates.                                                                                                                                                                                       | Decision: Four candidates were accepted and moved on to the Project Team Interview stage.                                                                                                            |
| Maintainer Retainer Founder Track Process | Christian proposed an alternate process for founders, suggesting excluding the Project Team Interview since the founder is the project team. Terence, Sebastian, and Elaine agreed with this exclusion to standardize the process.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Decision: The requirement for a Project Team Interview for founders of community projects is excluded.                                                                                               |
| SIP Editor Body Support Discussion        | Christian raised a discussion point about the SIP Editor Body needing support after a key person stepped down due to Catalyst funding changes, suggesting the Maintainer Retainer Program could potentially sponsor two people.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Action: Christian will bring someone from the SIP Editor Body to the next meeting to better explain the situation and potential support options.                                                     |
| Program Assignments                       | Terence facilitated the assignment of committee members to the seven key Paid Open-Source Model programs for primary/secondary ownership. Jordan took Tooling/Bug Bounty, Georg took Maintainer Retainer/Project Support Services, Sebastian took Accelerator/Code Forest, and Bernard took DA Program/Code Forest.                                                                                                                                        | Action: The newly assigned teams will self-organize, coordinate offline, and provide updates on their program status at the next work session.                                                       |
| Emergo Academy Assets Open Sourcing       | Christian sought guidance on open-sourcing the purchased educational content (licensing, hosting, validation). Georg suggested Creative Commons licensing and platforms like Moodle or Udemy. Jordan suggested the option of a paid certification alongside free course material.                                                                                                                                                                          | Action: Christian, Georg, Jordan, and Bernard will meet offline for a discovery session to review the assets and propose a formal plan for open-sourcing the material at the next committee session. |
| ClickUp Dashboard Follow-up               | Georg demonstrated the proper use of the ClickUp task features by updating the Emergo Academy item with assignees, a status change, and action items. Christian advised new users to disable email notifications to avoid being heavily spammed by status change updates.                                                                                                                                                                                  | Committee members were advised to configure their notification settings to prevent excessive spam. Continued use of the ClickUp dashboard is encouraged for all program tracking.                    |
