# ðŸ˜† (01/22/2026) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name                     | Attendance | Role       | Voting Seat (Y/N) | Term         |
| ------------------------ | ---------- | ---------- | ----------------- | ------------ |
| Georg Link               | Yes        | Chair      | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Udai Solanki             | Yes        | Vice Chair | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Terence â€˜Texâ€™ McCutcheon | Yes        | Secretary  | N                 | N/A          |
| Christian Taylor         | Yes        | SME        | N                 | N/A          |
| Bernard Sibanda          | No         | Member     | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Jordan Hill              | Yes        | Member     | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Philip DiSarro           | No         | Member     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Sebastian Pabon          | Yes        | Member     | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Reshma Mohan             | Yes        | Member     | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Empty Seat               | No         | Member     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Empty Seat               | No         | Member     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Empty Seat               | No         | Member     | Y                 | April 2026   |

Community/Other Attendees

* Hammad Ali
* Harun Mwangi
* Lloyd Duhon
* Uche Obasi
* Vinay Devabhakthuni
* Vinit Inamke
* Wilco van de Burgwal



**Recording:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2026/01/22 - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1hj9gkde9erOIX2UTGqpPGKksnIA1B37i/view?usp=sharing)

**Transcript:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2026/01/22 - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/17PVYSyCnrJqPzT9Lq0ctrZAN6fN14DS9Tztk06DRvbw/edit?usp=sharing)

**Chat Transcript:** [Open Source Committee Meeting â€“ 2026/01/22 â€“ Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1y6Wn3fZqvTMohSHWykkLRTFxc5JB6Dy5/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

**Christian:** Head of Open Source Office, Intersect, OS SME\
**Tex:** Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary\
**Bernard:** TBD\
**Georg:** Bitergia\
**Jordan:** TBD\
**Reshma:** TBD\
**Sebastian:** OSC, Gimbalabs, contributor, Andamio co-founder.\
**Philip:** TBD\
**Udai:** TBD

## Agenda 01.22.26

* MRP Confirm placements
* TSP Approvals
  * Selection Criteria
  * Cicerium
  * MLabs Proposals
* Code for Us
* Events Q1
* Interview Summary Approval (SIM)
* Event Summary Approval
* OSS Minneapolis Sponsorship
* Bug Bounty Payouts (Approvals)
* Q4 DA Report (Async review) 48 hours

## Decisions/Actions

**Decisions**

* **Approval of Bug Bounty Payouts:** Approved the disbursement of $40,000 from the $300,000 budget for identified vulnerabilities.
* **Maintainer Selections:** Approved the hiring/placement of Kevin, Joris, Jonathan, Leonard, Quirin, Andre, Darlington, and Suganya for the Maintainer Retainer Program.
* **Approval of Milestone Evidence:** Formally accepted the interview summary for Mike Hornan and the Cardano Summit after-action reports as proof of milestone completion.
* **Travel Policy:** Established that event attendance for OSC members costing $3,000 or less is considered automatically approved.
* **Developer Advocate (DA) Support:** Decided to extend the OSC travel budget to cover Developer Advocates, provided they submit specific requests.
* **Inactive Member Removal:** Agreed to initiate the removal process for committee members who have been inactive for more than two months.
* **Tie-breaking Authority:** Confirmed Christian as the tie-breaking vote following the resignations of Elaine and Arnaud.

<figure><img src="../../../.gitbook/assets/Screenshot 2026-01-22 at 10.27.39â€¯AM.png" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

**Actions**

* **Tooling Sustainability Program (TSP) Review:** Members are tasked with reviewing the TSP â€˜Selection Criteriaâ€™ document on Discord and adding comments before the next meeting.
* **Token IQ Event Proposal:** Reshma to share detailed documentation and budget for the Token IQ booth in Discord for committee review.
* **Q1/Q2 Event Planning:** Terence needs to finalize the list of attendees for upcoming events (FOSTM, ETH Denver, Game Developers Conference, Builderfest) by the end of the week.
* **DA Travel Submissions:** Developer Advocates are requested to submit their travel expectations and estimated costs for the year.
* **Q4 DA Report:** Committee members to conduct an async review of the Q4 Developer Advocate report.

| Topic                                | Discussion                                                                                                                                                                            | Notes                                                                                                                      |
| ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Introductions & Logistics            | Georg (newly voted Lead) opened the meeting. Members shared names/affiliations in chat to establish quorum.                                                                           | Terence confirmed quorum (6-7 members present). Georg is visiting Germany; Rashma is in India.                             |
| New Meeting Workflow                 | Georg proposed using ClickUp for the agenda. Important info and motions will be pre-formulated in the task description to allow for faster voting and last-minute discussion.         | The committee acknowledged to use this workflow to streamline decision-making.                                             |
| Bug Bounty Payouts                   | Discussion on the Bug Bounty budget ($300k total, $40k to be paid out). Georg clarified the OSC provides oversight, while the Security Council determines bug severity.               | Approved. (5 Yes, 1 Abstain). Payouts to be dispersed based on Security Council determinations.                            |
| Committee Resignations               | Terence announced the resignations of Elaine and Arno.                                                                                                                                | Christian will serve as a tie-breaking vote when required due to the reduced committee size.                               |
| Maintainer Retainer Program (MRP)    | Approval of selections: Kevin, Joris, Jonathan, Leonard, Kieran, Andre, Darlington, and Suganga for various projects.                                                                 | Approved. (5 Yes, 1 Abstain). Plutonomicon position remains open with no applications yet.                                 |
| Tooling Sustainability Program (TSP) | Review of the TSP document. Christian noted that the OSC is currently reviewing applications directly due to low momentum in the Tooling Working Group.                               | Action: Committee members to review/comment on the document in Discord for approval next meeting.                          |
| Cesarium Budget Approval             | Lloyd (Guest) requested urgent approval for Cicerium (proposal development tool) to meet budget reconciliation deadlines. Sebastian expressed technical concerns but general support. | Approved. (5 Yes, 1 Abstain).                                                                                              |
| Interview & Event Evidence           | Approval of the interview summary for Mike Hornin and the Cardano Summit after-action report as milestone evidence.                                                                   | Approved. (5 Yes, 1 Abstain). Sebastian confirmed his summary is in the events folder.                                     |
| Q1 Event Attendance                  | Discussion on attending FOSTM, ETH Denver, Game Developers Conference, and Builderfest. Rashma proposed a booth at the Token IQ event in India.                                       | Approved: Events under $3,000 per person are pre-approved. Reshma to share Token IQ details in Discord for async approval. |
| Developer Advocate (DA) Travel       | Discussion on whether the OSC travel budget ($125k) should cover DAs. Uche inquired about the Cardano Africa Tech Summit. Jordan expressed concern about overspending.                | Approved: DAs can apply for coverage. DAs are asked to submit travel expectations and booth requirements for Q1.           |
| Open Source Summit Sponsorship       | Terence proposed a Gold Level sponsorship ($40k) for the OS Summit in Minneapolis (May). Total cost with travel for 10 people estimated at $50kâ€“$60k.                                 | Committee generally in favor as it utilizes the budget effectively and provides high visibility.                           |
| DA Q4 Report                         | Brief mention of the Q4 DA report, and Code for Us being turned into an Intersect contract.                                                                                           | Action: Members to review and provide comments on these documents in Discord within 48 hours.                              |
| Member Removal Process               | Georg initiated a process to remove committee members who have been inactive for more than two months.                                                                                | Approved via verbal consensus. One member is currently affected.                                                           |
