# ðŸ˜… (01/22/2026) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name                     | Attendance | Role       | Voting Seat (Y/N) | Term         |
| ------------------------ | ---------- | ---------- | ----------------- | ------------ |
| Georg Link               | No         | Chair      | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Udai Solanki             | Yes        | Vice Chair | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Terence â€˜Texâ€™ McCutcheon | Yes        | Secretary  | N                 | N/A          |
| Christian Taylor         | Yes        | SME        | N                 | N/A          |
| Bernard Sibanda          | No         | Member     | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Jordan Hill              | Yes        | Member     | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Philip DiSarro           | No         | Member     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Sebastian Pabon          | Yes        | Member     | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Reshma Mohan             | Yes        | Member     | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Empty Seat               | No         | Member     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Empty Seat               | No         | Member     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Empty Seat               | No         | Member     | Y                 | April 2026   |

Community/Other Attendees

* Darlisa Consoni
* Emmanuel Titi
* Harun Mwangi
* Robert Hever
* Uche Obasi



**Recording:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2026/02/05 - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/132YWo28xOGBh2XFQujwXT2ImErZLbW4T/view?usp=sharing)

**Transcript:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2026/02/05 - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SIgweMfNyI0OUKSCBNcSvR6j_Wj1gjHciIkU3QcCFFI/edit?usp=sharing)

**Chat Transcript:** [Open Source Committee Meeting â€“ 2026/02/05 â€“ Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1oE_5TWZJMIomWMRPS7uPK07TIh7OWxY8/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

**Christian:** Head of Open Source Office, Intersect, OS SME\
**Tex:** Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary\
**Bernard:** CTO at WIMS\
**Georg:** OSC Chair\
**Jordan:** TBD\
**Reshma:** OSC voting member, Founder of Reafino\
**Sebastian:** OSC, Gimbalabs, contributor, Andamio co-founder.\
**Philip:** TBD\
**Udai:** OSC voting member, Founder and CEO - AIQUANT

## Agenda 2.05.26

* Developer Advocate Check-In
* Charli3 - Transition to Open Source
* Tooling - Selection Criteria
* MRP - Interview Report
* OSS NA Minneapolis
* MRP - Interview/Review Cadence
* Confirmation of Projects onboard to MRP
* Accelerator Program Updates
* Open Forum
  * Committee Elections April 2026
  * Accelerator Budget Discussion

## Decisions/Actions

**Decisions**

* **Charlie 3 Incubation Approved:** The committee voted to approve the Charlie 3 Oracle project for the project incubation program.
* **OS Summit Minneapolis Sponsorship:** The committee officially approved the $38,000 Gold Sponsorship for the North America summit, providing the flexibility to sign the contract when the $ADA valuation is favorable.
* **Maintainer Retainer Onboarding:** Projects Whiskey, Vodka, and Dandelion Light were officially confirmed as part of the program.
* **April 2026 Elections:** It was confirmed that five committee seats will be up for election in April to replace departing members and fill vacancies, with each seat carrying a two-year term.
* **Maintainer Retainer Report:** The committee approved the interview report for the first cohort of eight selected maintainers.
* **Accelerator Strategy:** Consensus was reached to use a consolidated partnership with Chinstrap and STORM Partners to deliver the accelerator program within the current budget.

<figure><img src="../../../.gitbook/assets/image (8).png" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

**Actions**

* **Asynchronous Voting:** Members must review the Tooling Sustainability Program selection criteria document on Discord and provide final approval/comments.
* **Interview Availability:** All committee members need to send Terence their 2-3 hour availability blocks for Round 2 Maintainer Retainer interviews (15-30 minute slots).
* **Report Review:** Christian to perform a final read-through of the Maintainer Retainer interview report to ensure it aligns with interview notes before publication.
* **Event Planning:** Members interested in the Minneapolis planning meetings must notify Terence of their availability for weekly or bi-weekly syncs starting in March.
* **Treasury Conversion:** Intersect leadership (Christian/Terence) to coordinate with NBX and Moneta regarding the 30-day process of converting $ADA to $USDM for liquidity.
* **Communication:** Members are tasked with increasing their async activity in the Discord channel to streamline decision-making before the next live meeting.

| Topic                       | Discussion                                                                                                                       | Notes                                                                                                                                   |
| --------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Meeting Logistics           | Reshma noted confusion regarding a "ghost" meeting on her calendar. Udai also joined the incorrect session.                      | Terence clarified the agenda setting meeting is on pause; Discord is the primary source for real-time updates.                          |
| Communication Channels      | Christian asked if the committee prefers Discord or Slack for coordination. Udai noted "channel fatigue" across Intersect.       | The consensus is to remain on Discord for now, stressing the importance of personal attentiveness over the specific tool.               |
| Quorum & Introductions      | The meeting reached a quorum (4 of 7 members) with the arrival of Sebastian.                                                     | Attendees for quorum: Udai, Reshma, Jordan, and Sebastian.                                                                              |
| Developer Advocacy          | Uche provided updates on working groups and onboarding sessions.                                                                 | Focus is currently on the upcoming Cardano Africa Tech Summit.                                                                          |
| Charli3 Incubation          | Robert proposed open-sourcing Charli3â€™s Oracle infrastructure to solve fragmented data issues in Cardano.                        | Robert is seeking advisory and governance support rather than heavy financial funding.                                                  |
| Funding for Charlie 3       | Udai and Robert discussed the financial requirements for the transition.                                                         | Christian clarified the plan involves a "maintainer retainer" for devs and a small project support request for legal/structural advice. |
| IP & Licensing              | Robert detailed which solutions (Push/Pull Oracles, DEX aggregator) would move to MIT or Apache licenses.                        | Some enterprise-specific forks will remain private to satisfy Web2 client requirements.                                                 |
| Selection Criteria: Tooling | Terence presented the final markup for the Tooling Sustainability Program criteria.                                              | This will move to an asynchronous vote on Discord to expedite milestone forms.                                                          |
| Payment Currency            | Discussion on paying out via the Andamio platform in ADA vs. USD/USDM due to price volatility.                                   | Jordan and Bernard expressed a preference for ADA or native stablecoins (USDM) to manage budget fluctuations.                           |
| Maintainer Retainer Report  | Terence presented a report on the first 15 applicants, with 8 individuals selected.                                              | The committee was asked to sign off on the report; Christian will perform a final review for alignment.                                 |
| OS Summit Minneapolis       | The cost for a gold sponsorship is $38k. Terence noted that ADAâ€™s price dip makes this a significant portion of remaining funds. | Approved: The committee voted to approve the summit today to allow flexibility to act if ADA's price improves.                          |
| OS Summit India             | Potential to sponsor the Mumbai event for $4,650 to get a discount on the North America event.                                   | On Hold: Reshma cannot travel due to personal reasons; decision delayed to see if other attendees (Christian) are available.            |
| Maintainer Program Rd 2     | Eight to nine new applicants have applied for the second round of the maintainer retainer program.                               | Terence requested committee members provide 15â€“30 minute availability blocks for interviews in February.                                |
| Committee Elections         | Two members (including Chair Georg) are departing in April.                                                                      | Passed: The committee will elect 5 members in April 2026 for two-year terms.                                                            |
| Accelerator Program         | Christian discussed a partnership with Chinstrap and Storm for a 3-part workshop series and a "Demo Day."                        | Funding may be pulled from the "Project Support" bucket to mitigate ADA price drops; Storm will manage delivery.                        |
