# ðŸ˜Ž (02/19/2026) Meeting Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name                     | Attendance | Role       | Voting Seat (Y/N) | Term         |
| ------------------------ | ---------- | ---------- | ----------------- | ------------ |
| Georg Link               | Yes        | Chair      | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Udai Solanki             | No         | Vice Chair | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Terence â€˜Texâ€™ McCutcheon | Yes        | Secretary  | N                 | N/A          |
| Bernard Sibanda          | No         | Member     | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Jordan Hill              | Yes        | Member     | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Sebastian Pabon          | Yes        | Member     | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Reshma Mohan             | No         | Member     | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Empty Seat               | No         | Member     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Empty Seat               | No         | Member     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Empty Seat               | No         | Member     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Empty Seat               | No         | Member     | Y                 | April 2026   |

Community/Other Attendees

* 8Pro
* Dan Baruka
* Darlisa Consoni
* Harun Mwangi
* Iano
* P. Lucas
* Uche Obasi
* Wilco van de Burgwal



**Recording:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2026/02/19 - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1dGfJQSPxhfAVVZjuGUrkUwMP2O-yUIAt/view?usp=sharing)

**Transcript:** [Open Source Committee (Intersect) - 2026/02/19 - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v_JQMkl2904tSRUri5EBHN_W-K7Yo_OtM2-w58zzFOI/edit?usp=sharing)

**Chat Transcript:** [Open Source Committee Meeting â€“ 2026/02/19 â€“ Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1lmRtCxUcmn6EQ6R6S57MDEilIdKxWqsZ/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

**Tex:** Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary\
**Bernard:** TBD\
**Georg:** Bitergia\
**Jordan:** TBD\
**Reshma:** OSC voting member, Founder of Reafino\
**Sebastian:** OSC, Gimbalabs, contributor, Andamio co-founder.\
**Udai:** OSC voting member, Founder and CEO - AIQUANT

## Agenda 2.19.26

* Developer Advocate Check In - CATS Recap
* Accelerator Program Changes
* MRP Interviews - Ongoing
* TSP - Selection Criteria Published
* POSM Program(s) Status
* Committee Elections
* BuidlerFest
* Open Forum
* Upcoming meeting cadence 5 Mar

## Decisions/Actions

**Decisions**

* **Meeting Cadence:** The committee officially agreed to skip the March 5th meeting. To maintain momentum, they decided to meet next week (February 26th) and resume a back-to-back schedule following the break.
* **Accelerator Program Pivot:** The committee decided not to grant "Storm" full ownership of the program. Instead, they will move forward with a "slimmed-down" version involving Storm through a set of scheduled office hours.
* **Summer of Code:** The committee confirmed the decision to return these funds to the treasury reserve and will not pursue the program for the 2026 cycle.
* **Buidlerfest Representation:** The committee approved the move to prepare a presentation for the March 24th event, with Sebastian leading and Georg assisting.
* **Tooling Selection Process:** The selection criteria and the two-path entry model (self-nomination and committee recommendation) were finalized and published to the GitBook.

**Actions**

* **Terence:** Finalize the contract with Andamio for the Community Maintainer platform.
* **Committee Members:** Review the MRP interview recordings in the shared Google Drive and submit scores/feedback for the candidates.
* **Terence:** Reach out to project teams to gather specific requirements for the incoming community maintainers.
* **Terence:** Follow up on the potential partnership with the Cardano Foundation regarding sponsorship for the Open Source Summit in the US.
* **Georg & Sebastian:** Coordinate outside of the main call to begin drafting the presentation and logistics for Builderfest.
* **Committee Members:** Check the Discord "final call" for the election document and provide feedback on the recommended skills/background section.
* **Harun:** Develop a formal plan/proposal for the introductory session with the Kenyan student presidents at the blockchain center.
* **Terence:** Resend the chair interview booking link to Georg via Slack.

| Topic                                | Discussion                                                                                                                                                   | Notes                                                                                                                |
| ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Welcome & Quorum                     | Georg opened the meeting. The group discussed favorite seasons while waiting for attendance. Terence confirmed they were at 50% attendance (3 of 6 members). | Meeting proceeded without official quorum; decisions requiring a vote are deferred to Discord or future sessions.    |
| Agenda Overview                      | Georg outlined the agenda: Accelerator changes, MRP interviews, Tooling selection, Program status, Committee elections, and Builderfest.                     | No new items were added to the main agenda.                                                                          |
| Dev Advocate Update                  | Harun and Dan recapped the Africa Tech Summit (CATS) in Nairobi. They met with various community members and recorded a workshop and podcast.                | A survey is ongoing (70/100 responses) before merging with Cardano Foundation data.                                  |
| DX Working Group                     | Harun mentioned rumors of moving the Developer Experience (DX) working group to the Product Committee.                                                       | Terence clarified there are no plans to merge; Dev EX remains tied to the Dev Advocate program.                      |
| Accelerator Program                  | Discussion on "Stormâ€™s" proposal. Due to ROI concerns and technical alignment, the committee is considering a "slimmed-down" version.                        | Plan is to utilize Storm for specific office hours rather than full program ownership.                               |
| MRP Interviews                       | Georg and Sebastian updated the group on Community Maintainer interviews. Several high-quality candidates have been interviewed.                             | Members are encouraged to review interview recordings and scores in the shared Google Drive.                         |
| Tooling Selection                    | Georg highlighted the published selection criteria in the GitBook. Tools can join via self-nomination or committee recommendation.                           | Projects must pass a self-attestation script before entering the evaluation/demo phase.                              |
| Program Status: POSSUM               | Terence provided a rapid update: MRP is moving to version 1.3 (onboarding); Tooling Sustainability needs 4 more tools to hit milestones.                     | Bug Bounty (Bug Bounty) is progressing; GitHoney tooling is expected in early March.                                 |
| Program Status: Operations           | Travel budget is being coordinated for the Open Source Summit (US). Summer of Code (SoC) funds are being returned to the treasury.                           | Programs like "Code for Us" and "Project Support Services" remain pending or undefined for now.                      |
| Committee Elections                  | Elections will now occur once a year. Terence presented draft requirements, including "prior proven contributions" as a recommended background.              | Sebastian suggested clarifying that "contributions" include participation in working groups, not just the committee. |
| Builderfest 2026                     | Sebastian announced that the committeeâ€™s talk for Builderfest (March 24) was approved. The focus is on promoting POSM programs.                              | Georg expressed interest in joining as a speaker. Travel budget is available for attendees.                          |
| Upcoming Cadence                     | Terence will be unavailable on March 5. The committee agreed to meet next week (Feb 26) and then skip March 5.                                               | Schedule: Feb 26 (Added), March 5 (Skipped), March 12 (Resume).                                                      |
| New Business: Kenya Student Outreach | Harun was approached by the Kenyan student president association (representing 650k students) for collaboration.                                             | Georg encouraged Harun to explore this; committee travel budget may be available to support university visits.       |
